Ivory Coast's main opposition leader promised Saturday to continue 
a peaceful fight for democracy, remaining defiant despite a court 
decision that barred him from running against the country's junta 
leader in upcoming presidential elections. In a veiled threat to the 
West African nation's military junta, opposition leader Alassane Dramane 
Ouattara said the regime is incapable of ``subverting the will of 
the people'' despite Friday's Supreme Court ruling. Twenty candidates 
had submitted applications to participate in the Oct. 22 election, 
called to restore civilian rule. But only five, including junta leader 
Gen. Robert Guei, were found eligible to run, according to the court 
decision read late Friday. Ouattara was rejected along with former 
president Henri Konan Bedie, the leader ousted by the military junta 
last winter. Some Ouattara supporters had warned of civil unrest if 
he was excluded. Junta officials had countered with threats of harsh 
reprisals for any violence. On Saturday, Ouattara accused Guei of 
``buying'' the decision from court chief Kone Tia, the junta leader's 
former attorney. He called Tia ``one of the most corrupt judges in 
Ivory Coast.'' Ouattara urged his supporters to remain calm, instructing 
them in a statement to ``preserve our dear Ivory Coast from violence 
and to assure that the peace to which we are all attached is not threatened.'' 
But he warned that public anger over the decision could still explode. 
``We know from Serbia what happens when the will of the people is 
being ignored,'' he said, referring to the opposition uprising in 
Yugoslavia that toppled President Slobodan Milosevic. ``One cannot 
predict what will happen in Ivory Coast.'' There were no immediate 
signs of unrest in Ivory Coast, where a state of emergency and nighttime 
curfew have been in effect since Friday. In Abidjan, the country's 
commercial capital, many stores were closed and there were fewer people 
in the streets than usual. But buses were running normally and security 
forces kept a low profile. In the streets surrounding Ouattara's hulking 
Abidjan mansion, where hundreds of supporters have camped out for 
weeks, young men wearing bandannas and white T-shirts reinforced sandbag 
barriers while chanting ``Ado,'' a popular nickname for Ouattara. 
``If Ado tells us to die, we will die. We are just waiting for orders 
of what to do next,'' said one of the protesters, 24-year-old Mamadou 
Fofana. In its ruling, the Supreme Court said it had doubts about 
the nationality of Ouattara's mother and argued that the opposition 
leader had repeatedly used the nationality of neighboring Burkina 
Faso. Ivory Coast's new constitution requires that both parents of 
a presidential candidate be Ivorian-born and bars candidates that 
have used another nationality. Ouattara insists he meets those qualifications. 
With the exclusion of Ouattara and other major figures, Guei faces 
only one well-known politician, Laurent Gbagbo, a longtime opposition 
leader who has lost several previous election bids. ``Guei has assembled 
a team to run with him instead of against him,'' said Ouattara, saying 
none of the other contenders are threats to the military leader. After 
seizing power in the coup _ Ivory Coast's first _ Guei initially promised 
a quick handover to civilians. But he has since traded his military 
uniform for a suit and tie and has rallied several small political 
parties around his candidacy despite international calls to step down. 
The December coup shook Ivory Coast's standing as a stable financial 
and political power. The country has sub-Saharan Africa's third-largest 
economy, dependent on exports of coffee and cocoa.