A devastating earthquake struck the western state of Gujarat Friday, 
then shook the rest of the Indian subcontinent from top to bottom. 
More than 650 people are confirmed dead, but officials said they expect 
the toll to rise much higher as rescue teams find more victims in 
the rubble. The earthquake _ the most intense in India in half a century 
_ rumbled across Gujarat Friday morning shortly before 9 a.m., collapsing 
thousands of simple homes in Bhuj, a city of 150,000 close to the 
earthquake's epicenter, and toppling dozens of high-rise buildings 
and multistory apartments to the east in Ahmedabad, the state's commercial 
heart. Indian authorities said the earthquake had a magnitude of 6.9, 
the strongest here since 1950, while French, Chinese and U.S. seismologists 
put the magnitude between 7.6 and 7.9. The Indian air force on Friday 
began to airlift blankets, tents, medical supplies and doctors to 
Bhuj and Ahmedabad, as well as bulldozers, cranes and other heavy 
equipment that can help get people out of buildings that have tumbled 
down. And the army is moving about 3,750 troops into the worst hit 
areas to set up shelters and aid in the rescue efforts. ``We have 
decided to meet the emergency on a war footing,'' Prime Minister Atal 
Behari Vajpayee said here in the capital. ``The states which are affected 
will be given every assistance by the center. This is the time for 
the people to rally around and fight this calamity which has struck 
us.'' When the earth began to move Friday morning in Gujarat, more 
people than usual were at home because it was Republic Day, a national 
holiday that celebrates the adoption of the Indian constitution. Many 
of them were preparing to gather around their televisions to watch 
the parade in New Delhi that is the nation's annual show of military 
might. Afterward, people poured into the streets in terror, fearing 
they would be buried beneath their own roofs, and more than a dozen 
aftershocks kept them outside in the chill air Friday night, some 
of them huddled around bonfires. Temperatures were expected to drop 
into the 40s. ``Many people are still on the roads out of panic,'' 
Manorama Bhagat, an official in the district magistrate's office in 
Ahmedabad, said in a telephone interview. ``They are frightened to 
go back in their houses out of fear of repeat tremors.'' Bhuj, near 
the western coast of Gujarat and India's northern border with Pakistan, 
was the hardest hit city, but it was impossible to know the full extent 
of casualties because the city's communication links were completely 
severed in the earthquake. Officials said after an aerial survey that 
10 percent of the homes there had collapsed and the other 90 percent 
were damaged. As of Friday night, Ahmedabad, a city of about 5 million 
people, had the largest number of confirmed dead. Bhagat said 247 
bodies had been recovered from collapsed buildings there. Dozens of 
multistory buildings, many of them constructed in the last few years, 
fell down. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) The city's hospitals were scenes 
of confusion and heartbreak. ``In some hospitals the injured could 
not be immediately treated for the paucity of facilities and staff,'' 
the Press Trust of India news agency reported. ``Several victims, 
most of them women and children, with their skulls broken, limbs and 
backs badly bruised, awaited immediate attention at the same time.'' 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) But cities and towns across the state of Gujarat 
reported deaths. And India's home minister, Lal Krishna Advani, who 
represents the state in Parliament, told reporters in Ahmedabad that 
the number of dead could be 1,000 or more. Late Friday, the Press 
Trust of India, citing unnamed official sources, reported that more 
than 1,500 were dead, including as many as 1,000 people in Bhuj. While 
the deadly impact of the earthquake was concentrated in Gujarat, the 
tremors were felt from Katmandu, Nepal, westward to Karachi, Pakistan, 
and south to Madras in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. Here in New 
Delhi, lamp shades swayed and chairs shook on Friday morning. Pakistan 
and India are not talking to each other these days about trying to 
make peace in the contested region of Kashmir, but Pakistan's military 
ruler, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, took the earthquake as an occasion to 
send a message of condolence to Vajpayee. ``I have been saddened by 
the tragic loss of life and property in the earthquake which hit parts 
of India today,'' the general wrote in the message, released in Islamabad, 
Pakistan.