The colorful Arnaud Clement didn't shake a fist or crack a smile, 
much less fling his shirt, shoes and socks into the seats. And, yet, 
he had every reason to celebrate with his usual flair. Clement had 
just pulled off an unfathomable comeback by slaying two match points 
halfway through a captivating four-hour semifinal at the Australian 
Open on Friday night. At 5-foot-8-inches tall, he had just scampered 
to every drop volley, covered all corners of the court and made winners 
appear like trick quarters plucked from behind an ear. All of this 
on his way to making up a two-sets-to-none deficit. ``A small miracle,'' 
Clement called it. But on his fifth match point in the last grueling 
game of the night, as a weary Sebastien Grosjean smacked a forehand 
into the net, Clement just glanced at the players box, dropped his 
head and walked slowly to the net after his 5-7, 2-6, 7-6 (4), 7-5, 
6-2 resurrection. This was his first trip to the final of a major 
_ where he'll face defending champion Andre Agassi on Sunday _ but 
Clement didn't like the means to the glorious end. He was the first 
Frenchman to reach a final of the Australian Open since Jean Borotra 
won it in 1928. It wasn't a joyride going through his fellow Frenchman, 
his hitting partner and the friend he'd dined with for so many nights 
on the road. On Friday night, Clement left Grosjean crestfallen in 
the biggest match of their career. Still, the friendship endured. 
``When Sebastien shook hands, he just said to me, `Go ahead and do 
your best, go to the end,''' Clement said. To end his wild two-week 
run with his first major title, Clement will have to be at his counter-punching 
best against the methodical and fit Agassi. Clement won't be the favorite, 
but he will have a chance. Two years ago, he was within two points 
of beating Agassi at the French Open. And last year, although Agassi 
was visibly distracted by a difficult family situation at the U.S. 
Open, he was eliminated by Clement in the second round. ``It will 
depend on how fit Andre really is himself,'' said Clement. ``As far 
as I'm concerned, I'm fairly confident against him.'' Beneath the 
retractable roof of Rod Laver Arena, closed to keep out the rain, 
15th-seeded Clement revealed his sanguine nature against the 16th-seeded 
Grosjean. In the ninth and 10th games of the third set, Grosjean had 
Clement pushed up against the exit sign. With Clement serving at 3-5, 
Grosjean was poised to snap up his first match point of the day. But 
a daring Clement pulled Grosjean wide with a forehand into the corner, 
then wrong-footed him by whipping another blast behind him. He ended 
up saving his serve. Grosjean was still in prime position. He served 
for the match, and found his way to match point No. 2 at 40-30. But 
after a timid second serve, the 23-year-old Clement started a rally, 
came to the net on a short ball and punched a forehand volley for 
a winner. Suddenly, the 22-year-old Grosjean was visibly tight. Beneath 
his backward cap, his face looked panic-stricken. He ended up losing 
his serve with a forehand into the net on break point. Quickly, the 
death-defying Clement finished off a three-game run by taking the 
tiebreaker. ``I think I started well, but Arnaud keep fighting,'' 
Grosjean said. ``He started to play better. It was good fighting. 
But he came back and he played better at the end. ``I had a chance, 
of course. I think I'm not losing the match. He played better and 
better. I was, you know, thinking of the many break points.'' Of the 
20 break points he had, Grosjean converted only 6 of them. A more 
opportune Clement converted 6 of 12. On paper, Grosjean played the 
better match. He had 78 unforced errors to 71 winners, while Clement 
committed 70 unforced errors to just 40 winners. Grosjean wielded 
the big serve (20 aces), while Clement served the same number of double 
faults as Grosjean (5) but ripped only 8 aces. Grosjean even won more 
total points (176-174). Timing made all the difference. On cue, Clement 
managed to combine desperation and nerve. In the 11th game of the 
fourth set, Clement watched a break point on Grosjean's serve evaporate 
when he scrambled to dig out a drop shot, lofted it over Grosjean's 
head only to watch his friend chase it down, spin around and hit a 
forehand passing shot down the line. Instead of a letdown, Clement 
kept his head up. By prolonging each rally with his speed _ using 
the same scrambling tactic that helped him upset the fifth-seeded 
Yevgeny Kafelnikov two nights before _ Clement forced Grosjean to 
go for every line. Finally, Grosjean snapped. Clement gobbled up his 
next break point chance when Grosjean cracked a forehand a hair wide 
of the line. After taking the fourth set, Clement barged through the 
fifth. He was ahead 5-2 before Grosjean's pride prodded him. Although 
deflated, Grosjean made Clement earn his victory. A suddenly aggressive 
Grosjean erased four match points before Clement prevailed on his 
fifth. Clement did what Grosjean couldn't. ``He could have finished 
off the match when he had his match points in the third set,'' Clement 
said. ``He didn't take advantage of it.'' Once he failed to close 
out the match in the third set, the life slowly drained out of Grosjean's 
groundstrokes. In the long and winding rallies between the two baseline 
players early in the match, Grosjean's patience was rewarded with 
the overzealous mistakes made by Clement. Then, everything flip-flopped. 
After saving the match, Clement was energized by his brush with doom. 
Grosjean's footwork soon fizzled. ``It was tough, you know, because 
I had a chance,'' Grosjean said. ``He started to play much better. 
I was tired. He started to think on his victory.'' Two nights before, 
Clement played to the fans at Rod Laver Arena by stripping to his 
shorts after upsetting Kafelnikov. Friday night, he didn't feel like 
celebrating at all. ``Yes, that's right,'' Clement said. ``Grosjean 
is my friend. It's my friendship with Grosjean.'' That was more important 
than making history. After their match, the two did as they always 
do: they went out to dinner together.