The most powerful earthquake to strike India in more than half a century 
rocked the subcontinent on Friday, killing more than 650 people as 
it toppled buildings and houses in India and Pakistan. The 7.9 magnitude 
temblor in western Gujarat state, close to the border with Pakistan, 
shook high-rise buildings hundreds of miles away in the capital, New 
Delhi, and was even felt in Nepal and Bangladesh. All the deaths in 
India were recorded in Gujarat state. In Ahmedabad, Gujarat's commercial 
capital and a city of 4.5 million, as many as 50 multistory buildings 
collapsed and at least 200 people were killed. Hundreds of people 
besieged the fire station asking for help to dig out their relatives, 
said fire chief Rajesh Bhat. ``This is an emergency. We are facing 
a riotous crowd,'' Bhat said. ``A fear psychosis is developing in 
the city. People have fled their homes and are taking refuge in open 
fields.'' Corpses were piled up on the verandah of the N.S. Hospital, 
while patients overflowing into the hallways wailed and screamed with 
broken limbs and bleeding wounds. Press Trust of India reported 70 
people died while waiting to be treated. The overall death toll in 
India was 651 and expected to climb, Cabinet minister Pramod Mahajan 
said during a break in an emergency meeting held by Prime Minister 
Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Two children died in southern Pakistan when 
their house collapsed, bringing the toll to 653. The epicenter was 
near Bhuj, a desert town of 150,000 people in Gujarat. Ninety percent 
of the houses in Bhuj were damaged, Mahajan said. Police said 150 
people in the town had been killed. Mahajan, the Cabinet minister, 
said power supply had been affected but there was no damage to the 
two 220-megawatt nuclear plants in the state. The quake struck as 
many cities were celebrating India's 51st Republic Day, which commemorates 
the adoption of the constitution. The quake caused high-rise buildings 
to sway from New Delhi in the north, to Bombay and Madras in the south 
and Calcutta in the west, many hundreds of miles from the epicenter. 
Reports of aftershocks came in from around the country. An apparent 
aftershock hit Bangladesh, where hundreds of panicked residents flooded 
into the streets of Satkhira, on the border with India. In Ahmedabad, 
a center of India's textile industry, about 70 children and some teachers 
were feared dead in the debris of their school building, while 19 
engineering students were believed trapped in a collapsed college 
elsewhere in the city. Baijubahi, an Ahmedabad man who uses only one 
name, said his wife was killed in the earthquake and six members of 
his family were still trapped in their building. ``The police are 
trying to persuade me to go to the hospital for my wife's post-mortem,'' 
he said. ``I'm more concerned about the rest, who could have survived.'' 
Gujarat state's home minister, Haren Pandya, said 100 buildings had 
collapsed throughout the province. ``The whole state has been affected. 
Communications have been disrupted all over the state,'' Pandya said. 
In the town of Surat _ where police reported at least 31 dead _ three 
people were killed in a stampede at a diamond factory. When the quake 
hit, diamond workers in the three-story factory crowded into a narrow 
stairwell and tried to push their way to the only exit, said police 
official Vineet Gupta. In most of the country, there was no damage 
or injuries. But there was panic in the crowd in Pondicherry, on the 
southeastern coast, watching a Republic Day parade. People fled from 
the parade, but were quickly calmed by loudspeaker announcements. 
In New Delhi, bleachers set up for the Republic Day parade swayed 
just before Vajpayee and other dignitaries arrived for the three-hour 
military display. Millions of Hindus at the world's largest religious 
gathering in Allahabad, in Uttar Pradesh, more than 1,000 miles east 
of the epicenter, felt the ground sway under them. No injuries were 
reported. In India's financial capital, Bombay, people rushed onto 
the streets and held onto doorways as the high-rise skyscrapers swayed. 
On June 16, 1819, another quake in western India killed between 1,500 
and 2,000 people.