good evening. the earth opened up and the ground shook for two terrify 
terrifyingly long minutes. a powerful earthquake in northwest india. 
7.9 on the richter scale. killed more than 2000 people today. mostly 
in the indian city. as so often happens, people in older buildings 
were more likely to escape harm than those in newer ones. tonight, 
rescuers are racing to find more people they believe are still buried 
in the rubble. many survivors have no choice but to sleep in the streets. 
here's abc's ned potter. tonight in the quake zone, the air was filled 
with sirens. workers tried to move rubble -- and often failed. we 
still have two people who are alive here. we are trying to get them 
out. it happened to be a holiday today -- 51 years since india became 
a republic. and in all those years, the country has never had an earthquake 
this intense. "we are really suffering," said this man. "such big 
slabs have fallen down. the whole house has fallen apart." that was 
common. this four-story apartment building, only three years old, 
collapsed with more than 30 people inside. the epicenter was in a 
dry, desert region, but it includes the city of ahmadabad, with more 
than 4 million people. bbc correspondent mike woolridge was one of 
the first western reporters there. tonight, in the rubble of buildings 
like this, the attempt to rescue trapped victims is becoming increasingly 
desperate as the hours pass. india's prone to earthquakes, but this 
one was unusual. it was felt as far away as pakistan, nepal and bangladesh 
-- some of these places more than 1,000 miles away. that's because 
today's disaster area has not had a lot of quakes, so the rock below 
has not been split by fault lines. when a quake does happen, the whole 
region shakes. the seismic energy, the vibrations created by the earthquake, 
travel very efficiently, and they're felt far away. in ipd ya tonight, 
rescue teams are having terrible trouble reaching the area. and the 
death tl, clearly in the thousands, may never be fully known. ned 
potter, abc news, new york.