good evening. it's now early saturday morning in india and in the 
western part of that heavily populated country, a disaster of historic 
proportions. a massive earthquake, 7.9 on the richter scale, and the 
death toll could end up in the many thousands. the killer quake shook 
a wide area for a full 45 seconds. it was felt as far north as nepal 
and in the epicenter, the damage was calamitous. nbc's ron allen from 
london tonight. the situation in india grows more grim each hour -- 
at least 2,000 dead, 3,000 injured, and now a desperate race to save 
thousands buried under the rubble. earlier today, a baby found alive. 
among the missing, 70 young students and teachers believed buried 
under their school. outside, a four-story apartment building, a search 
for up to 50 residents, perhaps still alive inside. the ground started 
shaking. i told everyone to get out, but many people didn't make it. 
the injured overwhelm some hospitals with reports of victims dying 
while waiting for help. the massive quake strikes at 8:46 a.m. many 
families still at home celebrating a national holiday. a quake measuring 
7.9 on the richter scale lasting some 45 seconds. the epicenter -- 
gujarat, india's seventh largest state, home to 41 million people, 
an industrial center with major ports, pipelines and textile center. 
there's some american investment in the state as well. reports of 
buildings swaying, the ground shaking more than 1,000 miles away, 
in four countries, including neighboring pakistan where two children 
died when their house collapsed. throughout the day, fear and panic 
spreading, as more than 80 aftershocks hit the quake zone, and scientists 
expect more strong aftershocks to follow. magnitude 6 would not be 
a surprise, and that would be a danger to the rescue teams. already, 
hundreds of buildings collapsed, power stations, phone lines and water 
service knocked out. tonight, offers of help from around the world, 
including the u.s., but india's leaders still trying to figure out 
what's needed most. india's army, trying to spearhead rescue and relief 
operations, off to a slow start with little heavy equipment to move 
rubble. flights carrying 10,000 tents, tons of food, now on the way. 
tonight, india's leaders calling on their citizens to pull together 
and warning it may be several days before the country fully knows 
the toll of death and destruction. ron allen, nbc news, london.