nbc news "in depth" tonight. of earthquakes, which we've seen so graphically 
tonight in india. of course, here in california, earthquakes are pretty 
common, including some of the biggest ever. over the past two centuries, 
an estimated 4,000 people have died in quakes in this country, 3,000 
in one quake alone -- san francisco, 1906. so can experts predict 
the risk, and can they forecast where a big one may strike? our "in 
depth" report tonight from nbc's robert hager. 20 minutes before the 
huge quake in india, a minor one struck the u.s. under ohio's lake 
erie shoreline. it woke me up, and i jumped up and sat on the side 
of the bed. i felt this rumble coming and pretty soon everything was 
shaking. last week, two other tremors rattled neighborhoods of new 
york. in fact, there are 12,000 quakes a year, worldwide -- most minor. 
but big ones, like india's, unleash energy equal to thousands of atom 
bombs. by the time you move on to a magnitude 9 like the 1960 alaskan 
earthquake, the total energy output is probably starting to approach 
all the nuclear warheads in the world. that's a lot. in this nasa 
illustration, each yellow dot represents an earthquake in recent decades. 
it's easy to see how they concentrate along fault lines that correspond 
to the edges of the big plates that form the earth's outer crust. 
you hear a lot about earthquake fault lines, and maybe you imagine 
a deep chasm in the earth or an open split, well, this is what one 
looks like. in fact, this is america's best-known fault line, the 
san andreas fault, which runs all the way from the mexican border 
through california, nearly up to the oregon line. another view of 
a fault -- a tiny crack in pavement, outside san francisco. sure sign 
of movement below, says the geological survey's david schwartz. at 
this point, about four millimeters a year, but over time, that builds 
up and when a large earthquake occurs, it'll go boom, maybe move six 
feet in one shot. the sort of movement that's caused history's "big 
ones" in the lower 48, and where the risks are still greatest today, 
mostly concentrated in the west, but devastating quakes in the 1800s 
in new madrid, missouri, and charleston, south carolina. scientists 
use so-called shake tables to see what could happen if earthquakes 
like these struck today. what it takes to bring a building down and 
apply designs to make structures more flexible, so they'll sway with 
a quake but remain intact. lucy jones. the most dangerous thing in 
an earthquake is human construction. earthquakes don't kill people, 
buildings do. but unlike hurricanes, which forecasters can see coming, 
or even volcanoes, which often belch smoke before erupting, an earthquake 
signals no warning. the ability to predict the timing of a strike 
is none existent. we don't know when it's gonna happen. you know, 
the solid earth comes up upon you, and you don't know when, and you 
don't know if you're gonna be with your family. and we feel out of 
control. and out of control tonight in india as the death toll mounts. 
scientists can only wonder where and when the next big one will hit. 
robert hager, nbc news, washington.