West Virginia's Democratic governor, who as a member of Congress looked 
into the activities of fugitive financier Marc Rich, criticized President 
Clinton's term-ending pardon of Rich as ``an awful message'' to send 
to the public. ``This is terrible, and I totally disagree with the 
president's actions,'' Bob Wise said in an interview Friday. Wise 
conducted congressional hearings in 1991-92 into the award to a Rich-connected 
company of $45 million in contracts with the U.S. Mint while Rich 
was a fugitive living in Switzerland. He was wanted on federal tax 
fraud charges filed in New York. Clinton's grant of clemency to Rich 
last Saturday ``says if you hang out long enough, you might be able 
to get a presidential pardon,'' Wise said from Charleston, W.Va. ``This 
isn't a person that ought to be pardoned, and it sends an awful message,'' 
the governor concluded. As a House subcommittee chairman nine years 
ago, Wise told a congressional hearing that ``Rich, himself, is still 
on the lam, still known as one of the greatest tax evaders in U.S. 
history, and yes, still living the good life.'' While still a congressman, 
Wise was elected West Virginia governor in November and took office 
Jan. 15. A former labor lawyer, he was first elected to Congress in 
1982 as a liberal Democrat and moved toward the political center during 
his lengthy congressional tenure. Clinton responded to the criticism 
from his home in Chappaqua, N.Y., on Friday, telling reporters that 
the American people would support the pardon ``if they take a look 
at the record.'' Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., chairman of the House Government 
Reform Committee, is looking into whether Clinton ``had an improper 
motive'' for pardoning Rich and business partner Pincus Green in the 
last few hours of the Clinton presidency. Burton said Friday night 
on CNN's ``Wolf Blitzer Reports'' that he plans to investigate the 
matter fully, obtaining ``subpoenas if necessary.'' Rich's lawyer, 
Mark Quinn, interviewed on the same program, said there wouldn't be 
any need. ``There doesn't need to be any threatening of subpoenas,'' 
Quinn said. ``We will cooperate fully and promptly with any inquiry. 
We are confident that the facts are on our side. This indictment was 
really and truly bogus.'' According to Federal Election Commission 
records, Rich's ex-wife, songwriter Denise Rich, gave $201,000 in 
political donations to the Democratic Party last year as lawyers for 
the fugitive financier pressed the U.S. government to drop the case. 
Rich's attorneys turned to Clinton when the Justice Department refused 
to negotiate. Clinton said the value of his gifts are comparable to 
the value of those received by former President George Bush, if the 
values are considered on an annual basis. ``Just look at the whole 
record, look at the facts,'' Clinton said. ___ Associated Press writer 
Randy Coleman in Charleston, W.Va., contributed to this report.