Jennifer Capriati's comeback is complete. Unfazed by the pressure 
of playing in her first Grand Slam final, Capriati upset top-seeded 
Martina Hingis 6-4, 6-3 on Saturday to win the Australian Open. It 
was the most captivating moment in a tumultuous career for Capriati, 
the former child prodigy who left the women's tour in the mid-1990s 
because of drug and personal problems. Capriati entered the tournament 
seeded 12th and might be the most improbable women's Grand Slam champion 
since the Open era began in 1968. She beat defending champion Lindsay 
Davenport and four-time champ Monica Seles en route to the final, 
then outplayed Hingis from the start. On a gorgeous, cloudless day, 
Capriati was as perfect as the weather at the start, and she raced 
to a 3-0 lead in just 12 minutes. She slugged boldly from the baseline 
but was accurate, too, playing 25 points before she hit a shot long. 
Capriati's newfound fitness was often evident. She repeatedly ran 
down Hingis' drop shots, including on the final point of the first 
set, when she raced forward and bunted a backhand winner into the 
corner. Capriati was a big underdog but the sympathetic favorite, 
and the center-court crowd was clearly on her side, with supportive 
fans shouting her name between points. Her father and coach, Stefano, 
watched from under a red, white and blue USA hat, grinning and shaking 
his fist when his daughter hit a winner. By the second set, Hingis' 
frustration was increasingly evident. In the second game, after barely 
ticking Capriati' serve, Hingis hurled her racket to the court in 
anger. Hingis double-faulted on break point to fall behind 3-2, and 
Capriati's serve _ her downfall in the past _ held up the rest of 
the way. When Capriati hit a backhand return winner on the first match 
point, she hopped up and down, grinned and cried with joy. She clasped 
her hands behind her head, thrust her fists in the air and trotted 
over to her father. He rubbed her right arm _ the one that had just 
delivered a Grand Slam title. The loss was especially bitter for Hingis, 
who was bidding for her sixth Grand Slam title but her first since 
winning the 1999 Australian Open. She fell to 33-2 at Melbourne Park 
and lost to Capriati for the first time in their six meetings. Capriati 
ranks with the most unlikely of champions. The only unseeded titleist 
in the Open era was Chris O'Neil, who won the Australian Open in 1978, 
when many top players skipped the tournament. The lowest seeded champion 
previously was Iva Majoli, who won the 1997 French Open when seeded 
ninth. Capriati will climb to seventh in next week's rankings, the 
first time she has been in the top 10 since Jan. 16, 1994, when she 
was ninth. For the first time since 1995, the tournament is awarding 
equal prize money to men and women. Capriati received $473,385, and 
Hingis got $236,693.