Dusty, red-eyed survivors scoured the rubble of buildings that collapsed 
like stacks of cards in India's powerful earthquake, searching for 
loved ones Saturday, as officials predicted as many as 6,000 may have 
been killed. The 7.9 magnitude quake killed 2,315 people and injured 
14,000 in western Gujarat state, close to the Pakistani border, according 
to the state government's confirmed count. The total includes 10 people 
killed in collapsed houses in Pakistan. Friday's quake, the strongest 
to hit the subcontinent in 50 years, shook high-rise towers 600 miles 
away in the capital, New Delhi. It could be felt as far as 1,200 miles 
away in Calcutta and coastal Bangladesh _ a distance about equivalent 
to that between Washington and Dallas. Many more bodies are believed 
buried in the rubble, and the death toll is likely to exceed 6,000, 
Gujarat's Home Minister Haren Pandya was quoted as telling United 
News of India. Aftershocks kept rattling the piles of debris, halting 
search efforts as people scattered in panic. A high-ranking Gujarati 
official said more than 7,500 people could have been killed. In Bhuj, 
a town 12 miles from the epicenter, some 10,000 people were still 
missing in the rubble, and at least half of those were thought dead, 
said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity at the emergency 
control room in Gandhinagar, the state's political capital. Bhuj, 
a desert town of 150,000 people, was the worst hit by the quake, with 
1,400 people confirmed dead and 10,000 injured. Across Gujarat state, 
more than 100 multistory apartment buildings were toppled. In Ahmedabad, 
Gujarat's commercial capital and a sprawling city of 4.5 million, 
helmeted rescue workers used iron rods to pry slabs of concrete and 
metal, searching for survivors. Relatives stood atop buildings, collapsed 
into stacks, listening and peering into the crevices for signs of 
life. ``I am too distraught to talk, maybe later,'' said one man perched 
on a huge pile of massive stones, watching intently as rescue workers 
searched for his 14-year-old daughter. Some people crept up the twisted 
stairwells to pack valuables into suitcases and baskets, lowering 
them by rope to the ground. But most people were too afraid to re-enter 
the shaking buildings. They slept in the street around campfires with 
55-degree temperatures overnight. ``We slept a little in the open. 
We were too afraid to sleep inside,'' said businessman Ramesh Patel. 
Hetal Shah, 23, and her brothers scrambled over a pile of stones and 
metal that used to be their fourth-floor apartment at the top of the 
building. They were looking for $4,350 worth of jewelry and clothing 
that had been gathered for her wedding next month. Another man pulled 
a beautiful China plate from the pile, and said softly, ``This was 
from my living room.'' The quake struck at 8:50 a.m. Friday (10:20 
p.m. EST Thursday) as many cities were beginning celebrations for 
India's 51st Republic Day, which commemorates the adoption of the 
country's constitution. The tremors shook across much of the north 
and west of this vast nation of one billion people, and even extended 
to the mountains of Nepal, 1,000 miles north of the epicenter. ``Immediately 
we need 25,000 to 30,000 tents to set up camps for the homeless,'' 
Pandya said. ``That's our topmost priority in terms of survivors. 
All phone lines are down so satellite phones have been set up.'' In 
Bhuj, the main hospital was crammed with seriously injured people. 
Nearly 1,000 injured residents, most wrapped in blankets against the 
night chill, were camping outside the hospital waiting their turn. 
At least four planes carrying soldiers, paramedics, food, medicine 
and tents landed at Bhuj's Air Force base, said R.K. Dhingra, an air 
force spokesman in New Delhi. The government said it was flying 10,000 
tents, 10,000 tons of grain, 20 doctors and surgeons, communications 
and seismology experts to Gujarat. In Ahmedabad late Friday, corpses 
were piled up on the verandah of the N.S. Hospital, while patients 
overflowing into the hallways wailed and screamed with broken limbs 
and bleeding wounds. Bruised and bleeding bodies were laid in rows, 
covered with blankets as relatives sat by mourning. ``The earthquake 
is a calamity of national magnitude,'' Prime Minister Atal Bihari 
Vajpayee said. ``We have decided to meet the emergency on a war footing. 
This is the time for people to rally around.'' Vajpayee made no appeal 
for international aid, saying those needs were being assessed. President 
Bush, the United Nations, and Pakistan's army ruler Gen. Pervez Musharraf 
sent condolences. Bush said the United States is willing to provide 
assistance if needed, and the U.N. Office for the Coordination of 
Humanitarian Assistance announced that it will send a five-member 
earthquake assessment team to India on Sunday. The quake was the most 
powerful to strike India since Aug. 15, 1950, when an 8.5 magnitude 
temblor killed 1,538 people in northeastern Assam state. Mahajan insisted 
that Friday's quake measured 6.9, according to a preliminary figure 
given by the Indian Meteorological Institute. However, the U.S. Geological 
Survey, taking an average of seismograph measurements from around 
the world, said it was 7.9. There were least 83 aftershocks, several 
measuring up to 5.6 magnitude, in the 10 hours after the quake, said 
the seismological department at the Bhaba Atomic Center. An apparent 
aftershock also hit Bangladesh, where hundreds of panicked residents 
flooded into the streets of Satkhira, on the border with India. Baijubahi, 
an Ahmedabad man who uses only one name, said his wife was killed 
in the earthquake and six members of his family were still trapped 
in their building. ``The police are trying to persuade me to go to 
the hospital for my wife's post-mortem,'' he said. ``I'm more concerned 
about the rest, who could have survived.'' In the town of Surat _ 
where police reported at least 31 dead _ three people were killed 
in a stampede at a diamond factory. When the quake hit, diamond workers 
in the three-story factory crowded into a narrow stairwell and tried 
to push their way to the only exit, said police official Vineet Gupta. 
Elsewhere in the country, the quake caused high-rise buildings to 
sway from New Delhi in the north, to Bombay in the west, and Madras 
in the south and Calcutta in the east, more than a thousand miles 
from the epicenter. In the desert state of Rajasthan, the eighth-century 
Jaisalmer Fort, a popular tourist attraction, was damaged. Some of 
the distinctive yellow stones supporting the gate fell and the walls 
developed cracks. Millions of Hindus at the world's largest religious 
gathering in Allahabad, in Uttar Pradesh, more than 1,000 miles east 
of the epicenter, felt the ground sway under them. No injuries were 
reported. India's financial capital, Bombay, was closed for the holiday. 
People were sleeping late or having breakfast when the skyscrapers 
began swaying. They rushed out onto the streets in their nightgowns 
as dogs barked and birds screeched.