Survivors of a powerful earthquake that flattened cities in western 
India waited for food and tents as rescue workers searched frantically 
for signs of life under mountains of concrete rubble. Officials said 
2,403 bodies had been recovered and the death toll was likely to exceed 
7,400. Aid officials need up to 30,000 tents for those left homeless 
by the 7.9 magnitude quake, said Home Minister Haren Pandya of Gujarat 
state, which was devastated by Friday's quake. More than 100 multistory 
buildings and thousands of smaller houses collapsed like stacks of 
cards. The survivors desperately needed food and medical attention, 
Pandya said on television. The brunt of the temblor was borne by Bhuj, 
a town of 150,000 people 15 miles from the epicenter. The quake, the 
worst to hit India in more than 50 years, rocked Gujarat as people 
prepared to watch a live broadcast of Republic Day celebrations in 
India's capital, New Delhi. A high-ranking official at the state emergency 
control room said 1,450 of the 2,403 confirmed dead were in Bhuj. 
Another 10,000 people are believed to be buried in Bhuj under the 
mountains of jagged concrete rubble. At least 5,000 of those are most 
likely dead, he said on condition of anonymity. The quake also struck 
neighboring Pakistan, where 10 people were killed. Devastation was 
severe in Ahmedabad, Gujarat's biggest city and its commercial capital, 
where many high-rise buildings collapsed. In one building, a four-story 
elevator shaft remained intact while the apartments around it came 
down in a heap. Some 14,000 people, mostly suffering broken bones 
and cuts, jammed hospitals. Survivors sifted through the surface of 
the rubble Saturday, looking to salvage belongings or to hear sounds 
from still-buried loved ones. Rescue workers equipped with little 
more than crowbars or pickaxes dug through the debris. ``I am too 
distraught to talk, maybe later,'' said one man perched on a huge 
pile of stones as rescue workers searched for his 14-year-old daughter. 
``Our first priority is to remove the survivors from the debris,'' 
Pandya said on New Delhi Television. ``The second is to inspect cracked 
buildings to see if they are safe for people to move back in.'' Some 
people crept up the twisted stairwells of destroyed buildings to pack 
valuables into suitcases and baskets, lowering them by rope to the 
ground. But people were too afraid to re-enter the buildings. They 
slept in the street around campfires with temperatures hovering around 
55 degrees Fahrenheit. ``We slept a little in the open. We were too 
afraid to sleep inside,'' said businessman Ramesh Patel. Hetal Shah, 
23, and her brothers were scrambling over a pile of stones and metal 
that used to be their fourth floor apartment at the top of a building. 
They were looking for $4,350 worth of jewelry and clothing that had 
been gathered for her wedding next month. Shah said she and her brothers 
had to push their ill father down the collapsing stairs of the house 
when the quake struck. ``Dad fell down on his chest and the house 
collapsed behind us,'' she said, her hair covered with dust and her 
eyes red. The main hospital in Bhuj, run by the air force, was crammed 
with the injured. Nearly 1,000 residents, most wrapped in blankets 
against the night chill, were camping outside the hospital waiting 
their turn, the Star television network reported. The government said 
it was flying 10,000 tents, 10,000 tons of grain, 20 doctors and surgeons, 
communications and seismology experts to Gujarat. ``The earthquake 
is a calamity of national magnitude,'' Prime Minister Atal Bihari 
Vajpayee said. ``We have decided to meet the emergency on a war footing. 
This is the time for people to rally around.'' The earthquake shook 
high-rise towers 600 miles away in the capital, New Delhi, and could 
be felt as far as 1,200 miles away in Calcutta and coastal Bangladesh 
_ a distance about equivalent to that between Washington and Dallas. 
Residents in the mountains of Nepal also felt the tremor. Vajpayee 
has made no appeal for international aid. President Bush, the United 
Nations, and Pakistan's army ruler Gen. Pervez Musharraf sent India 
condolences. Bush said the United States was willing to provide assistance 
if needed, and the United Nations said it would send a five-member 
earthquake assessment team to India on Sunday. The quake did no damage 
to the two 220-megawatt nuclear plants in Gujarat, authorities said. 
But gas pipelines, most power supply stations, phone lines and water 
service were knocked out across the arid state, which is prone to 
drought. It was the most powerful quake to strike India since Aug. 
15, 1950, when an 8.5 magnitude temblor killed 1,538 people in northeastern 
Assam state. The U.S. Geological Survey, taking an average of seismograph 
measurements from around the world, said Friday's quake registered 
7.9. There were at least 83 aftershocks, several measuring up to 5.6 
in magnitude, in the 10 hours after the quake, said the seismological 
department at the Bhaba Atomic Center. An apparent aftershock also 
hit Bangladesh, where hundreds of panicked residents flooded into 
the streets of Satkhira, on the border with India.