To the players who wished her well in her comeback but possibly took 
her lightly, Jennifer Capriati had a reply: Shock them early and keep 
pounding winners. Capriati did it to defending champion Lindsay Davenport 
in the semifinal, jumping to a 3-0 lead on her way to the title showdown. 
Then she did it more emphatically against three-time winner Martina 
Hingis, racing to 4-0 in 12 minutes and winning the Australian Open 
title 6-4, 6-3 on Saturday. On her first match point, after 63 minutes 
of play, she slammed a backhand serve return. ``It was a winner down 
the line,'' she said, ``but it was just the slowest winner. It just 
kept going. ``As soon as I saw that it was clean, I had done it, the 
reality just hit me. 'Oh my God.' I just jumped for joy. I couldn't 
believe it just really happened.'' It was the 24-year-old Capriati's 
first Grand Slam tournament championship, and came five years after 
she began a comeback in earnest from the setbacks of drug and personal 
problems. In her early playing years, she never went beyond the semifinals 
at a Grand Slam event, although she won the Olympic gold medal as 
a 16-year-old in 1992, beating Steffi Graf in the final. ``That seems 
like another life,'' she said. ``This is a new life, a different life.'' 
Capriati was past considering her progress a comeback as she moved 
up the rankings in recent years. Although she went from Wimbledon 
1993 to Wimbledon 1998 without winning any match in a Grand Slam, 
she reached her first Grand Slam semifinal in nine years at last year's 
Australian Open, losing to eventual winner Davenport. Still, as the 
No. 12 seed, she was a longshot this time. The only unseeded champ 
in the Open era was Chris O'Neil, who won the Australian Open in 1978, 
when many top players skipped the tournament. Iva Majoli, who won 
the 1997 French Open, previously was the lowest-seeded champion at 
ninth. ``Maybe they're taking me lightly,'' Capriati said of her last 
two matches here. Hingis, ranked No. 1 on the tour, had won all five 
of their previous matches. Davenport, No. 2, was 5-1 against her before 
their semifinal. The key was to ``start real well and jump on top 
of my opponents,'' Capriati said. She broke Hingis in the first game, 
winning the last three points with a running forehand down the line, 
a backhand down the line, and a quick recovery that led to an eventual 
miss by Hingis. The 20-year-old Hingis, who has lost only two of her 
last 35 matches at the Australian Open, threw and kicked her racket 
after a service winner by Capriati in the second set's second game. 
Even after beating both sisters for the first time in a single tournament 
_ Serena in the quarterfinals and Venus in the semifinals _ Hingis 
knew she still had a tough task at hand. ``I knew I had to face a 
great player out there, otherwise she wouldn't have beaten Monica 
(Seles) and Lindsay here,'' Hingis said. After beating Venus 6-1, 
6-1 Thursday, she and Seles lost to the eventual champion Williams 
sisters in the doubles semifinals. ``I was dead after that,'' Hingis 
said. ``Just mentally, I didn't have it any more to go out there again 
and fight for every point.'' Hingis has not added to her collection 
of five Grand Slam titles since winning the 1999 Australian. ``I think 
there are worse disasters in life than what happened to me today,'' 
Hingis said. ``I can still smile. I'm healthy. I have more opportunities 
to come.'' Hingis fought back from 1-5 to 4-5 before Capriati served 
out the first set, sprinting all out on set point to return a drop 
shot and stopping just short of illegally touching the net. Capriati 
gained her key break in the second, for 3-2, on four quick points. 
She hit three forehand winners, and then watched Hingis double-fault. 
During Hingis' first-set resurgence, Capriati said she tried not to 
think about letting the set slip away. ``She started to play a little 
bit different. She tried to start hitting the ball deeper, maybe a 
little bit higher, with more spin,'' Capriati said. ``But she couldn't 
hit them all deep.'' During her victory speech, Capriati reflected 
on how she rebounded from her past troubles ``Who would've thought 
I would have ever made it here after so much has happened?'' Capriati 
told the supportive center-court crowd. ``Dreams do come true if you 
keep believing in yourself. Anything can happen.'' Asked later how 
she might respond to a Hollywood offer for her life story, she said, 
``If I were to do something like that, I would never sell it for anything. 
I don't know. For now, no. Who knows down the road in the future, 
but of course only on my terms.'' After the handshake with Hingis 
at the net, Capriati thrust her hands in the air and trotted over 
to her father and coach, Stefano. Reaching down from the stands, he 
blew a kiss and rubbed her right arm. Then she went back to her changeover 
chair and phoned her brother back home in Florida. ``I'm proud of 
her all the time, but especially now,'' said her beaming father. Capriati 
will climb to seventh in next week's rankings, the first time she 
has been in the top 10 since Jan. 16, 1994, when she was ninth. For 
the first time since 1995, the tournament is awarding equal prize 
money to men and women. Capriati received $473,385, and Hingis got 
$236,693.