I love that Bill Clinton wants to emulate Jimmy Carter and work in 
the field of conflict resolution. Talk about the fox in the henhouse. 
Not since the troublemaking goddess Eris threw the apple of discord 
into an Olympian banquet has anyone been able to create as much conflict 
as fast as our Bill. Eris had only one apple. Bill has orchards. Whenever 
things get peaceful, whenever Clinton seems to have gotten his act 
together, he goes apple-picking again. Despite the self-inflicted 
chaos and soap-operatic strife of the last eight years, the country 
was feeling pretty good about the Clintons as their last day here 
dawned. The vapid election and vituperative unelection had fostered 
some Clinton nostalgia. He was a hard worker who did some good things. 
His heart was in the right place, even if his libido wasn't. He was 
a diverting rogue, astonishing tactician and miraculous escape artist. 
You had to give him that. Many also forgave Hillary's sins with commodities 
trading, Travelgate, health care and stonewalling. Her dutiful Senate 
campaign persuaded them that she should have a chance to perform _ 
and be judged _ on her own. She had been a senator for all of two 
and a half seconds when the buzz about a potential presidency commenced. 
Then we saw the Saturday Morning Mess Occur. Now it will be hard to 
separate Bonnie from Clyde. It was a graceless, grabby, gabby exit 
_ crooks in striped outfits sprinting through the breached wall, Clintonites 
vandalizing the People's House and prying W's from computer keyboards, 
and the Clintons' merry laughter echoing. That creeping Clinton nostalgia 
curdled into creepiness. Bill and Hill took enough loot to fill a 
small hotel and liberated enough criminals to populate a new Australia. 
Only Bill Clinton could provoke a round of Dan Burton abuse-of-power 
hearings after he'd left office. Only Hillary Clinton, in her first 
days as a senator, could engender a debate about whether the Senate 
should tighten up the gift ban. Hillary is telling people how relieved 
she is to put the last eight years behind her. Maybe she regarded 
this final spree _ including her gazillion-dollar book deal and her 
bulging hope chest of parting gifts from Democratic contributors _ 
as the final chapter of her old life, rather than the tawdry, disappointing 
first chapter of her new life. The Clintons always want one more pass, 
one more Mulligan. Even after they hawked seats on Air Force One, 
nights in the Lincoln Bedroom, state dinners, pricey coffee and their 
friendship, they still enjoyed the benefit of the doubt. Small wonder, 
then, that they expected Americans to stomach a White House fire sale 
of presidential pardons and senatorial influence. On his last all-nighter 
in the White House, Bill was clearly feeling way too empathetic toward 
Marc Rich and others who were hounded by prosecutors for years. In 
a delicious symmetry, the Clintons were bookended by Bushes; both 
families have a distinctive sense of entitlement. The Bushes think 
they're good people and therefore entitled. The Clintons think they 
do good works and are therefore entitled. When Bill and Hillary omnivorously 
trade political favors for personal ones, they don't realize this 
defines them as much as a policy act. In David Maraniss' biography 
of Bill Clinton, he writes of Hillary wanting to build a pool at the 
Arkansas mansion. Dick Morris explained to her that she could not 
do that in a poor state. She angrily replied: ``Why can't we lead 
the lives of normal people?'' (She must now think that normal people 
own $2,340 Spode soup tureens.) As someone who worked closely with 
her puts it: ``Hillary, though a Methodist, thinks of herself like 
an Episcopal bishop who deserves to live at the level of her wealthy 
parishioners, in return for devoting her life to God and good works.'' 
Maybe the Clintons have been justifying the unjustifiable for so long 
they can no longer tell the difference. Sitting on Denise Rich's chairs 
and Steve Mittman's ottoman, in the lambent light of Walter Kaye's 
chandelier, they certainly have a lot to ponder. They shouldn't be 
too pleased with their reflection in Steven Spielberg's china.