thanks for joining us. here's our top story this half hour -- thousands 
of earthquake survivors are getting ready to spend a second night 
outside in the aftermath of the powerful tremor that devastated western 
india yesterday. the official death toll now stands at 11,000. but 
the indian defense minister says the quake could end up claiming as 
many as 15,000 lives. 32,000 people are reported injured. the city 
of ahmedabad, home to 7.7 million people, was especially hard-hit. 
rescue workers report 50 highrise buildings collapsed. satinder bindra 
has more. more than a day after a killer earthquake struck western 
india, hope of finding any survivors is fading fast. in ahmedabad, 
a densely populated western indian city rescue workers work around 
the clock using everything at their disposal -- heavy cranes, even 
their bare hands. for hundreds whose families lie buried underneath 
the rubble, the wait is excruciating. the news when it comes, unbearable. 
i have lost everything. yesterday i had some hope, now i have nothing. 
bhavesh patel has just learned his cousin, whose wedding he'd come 
to attend, perished in the rubble. two other family members attending 
the wedding were also killed, and bhavesh's agony is far from over. 
one of his aunts is still under the rubble. all across ahmedabad, 
at least 50 high rises have been flattened. fearing aftershocks, thousands 
of residents slept out in the streets, braving the cold. the indian 
prime minister has declared the area a disaster zone and is promising 
relief on a "war footing." thousands of troops are now assisting relief 
workers. the indian government is also rushing in food, doctors and 
thousands of tents. what people here want is heavy lifting equipment. 
as of yesterday, many people have been outraged relief officials could 
find only one back hoe and a crane to shift through the rubble of 
what was once a high school. 70 students were once trapped here. first 
their parents waited and prayed. now, as even the army seems doubtful, 
the will and fortitude of many parents is breaking down. i have only 
one wish that my child comes back alive out of the debris. i don't 
want to say anything else. i just want my child back alive. scenes 
of such sorrow are playing out elsewhere, too, as the smoke of funeral 
pyres floats over the city. it's god who saves, and it's god who decides 
when we die. back in the rubble, bhavesh patel doubts his aunt is 
alive and is overcome by feelings of helplessness. who can i blame? 
what can i do? thousands of other families across western india share 
that sentiment. and as people cremate their loved ones, many say the 
nightmares of the worst quake to hit india in 50 years will haunt 
them forever. satinder bindra, cnn, ahmedabad, western india.