Although it was a national holiday, 37 teen-agers trooped into the 
Swami Narayan School for a physics class. Their teacher had threatened 
punishment if they skipped the extra drill before exams. Less than 
an hour later, the four-story school collapsed on the young students, 
burying them as a 7.9-magnitude earthquake jolted the western Indian 
state of Gujarat and flattened much of this city of 4.5 million. Six 
children were rescued from the building within hours, but the bodies 
of 16 were pulled out later. They had been killed by falling concrete 
slabs or smothered under heaps of dust and masonry when the school 
came crashing down. A day later, the other 15 teen-agers were still 
missing. Their parents kept a grim vigil as workers searched frantically 
and hope faded. ``Until Friday afternoon we could hear the cries of 
the children. Now we hear nothing,'' police inspector Ramesh Barot 
said. ``But we are continuing our efforts.'' As the rescuers labored 
on, mothers of the missing huddled under a makeshift tent while fathers 
waited alongside the police cordon surrounding the school. The cooked 
food neighbors brought for the mothers remained untouched. Their whispers 
and weeping were drowned out by the sound of power drills boring through 
the concrete. ``I want my son back. Why can't they do something?'' 
wailed Nainabehn Patel, her eyes red and swollen. Patel's son, Bhowmik, 
16, was somewhere under the rubble. She said she had not had a sip 
of water since she learned he was among those trapped in the school 
building. ``How can I eat?'' she asked. ``I will wait till they bring 
me some news.'' Patel's sister, Kokilabehn Mehta, consoled her as 
she wept. ``We are just waiting, though now we know there is no hope,'' 
she said. Schools were closed Friday for Republic Day, a national 
holiday that commemorates the adoption of India's constitution 51 
years ago. But Mehta said the teen-agers here had been called in for 
the extra class to prepare for a physics laboratory test on Saturday. 
``And the teacher had said if they don't come for the practice, they'd 
be punished,'' she said. Three bodies were removed from the debris 
Saturday. As the body of Prateek Bhatt, a 16-year-old schoolboy, was 
carried out by firefighters, there was a surge of movement among the 
hopeful mothers. ``They've found Prateek, our Savitabehn's son,'' 
one of the women shouted. But the announcement was soon followed by 
the wails of Savitabehn, as she realized her son was dead. Mahmoud 
Rafiq, an ambulance driver, said he had been carrying the injured 
and bodies to the hospital since Friday morning. ``Earlier there were 
a lot more injured, some with fractures or head or spine injuries,'' 
he said. ``Today it's only dead bodies.'' Reports that opposition 
Congress party leader Sonia Gandhi was to visit the site Saturday 
afternoon sent police officials into a huddle as they chalked out 
security arrangements and the route she would take through the congested 
lanes leading to the school. But around the tent where the mothers 
waited, the news of Gandhi's visit was greeted with silence. ``We 
don't care who comes, as long as the operations continue,'' said Umesh 
Panchal, whose 16-year-old son, Nimesh, was among those still in the 
debris. ``At least give me my son's body back,'' he said.