Jennifer Capriati was seated in a small garden outside Rod Laver Arena 
late Saturday afternoon, at ease with the fuss around her, completely 
relaxed as the center of attention. She was just moments away from 
leaving the grounds for a photo session reserved for the Australian 
Open champion, and yet she was far removed from a time when she bristled 
at the flashbulbs that flooded the infancy of her career. In the early 
'90s, Capriati was simply ``Jenny'' to everyone. She giggled, twisted 
her hair and lit up every tournament she played in as the bubble-gum 
curiosity. Just after she won a gold medal in Barcelona, Spain, more 
than eight years ago, she said, ``All week I watched the other athletes 
up there, and I thought, `Wow, that would be so cool.''' A smitten 
public devoured the innocent reaction of the 16-year-old Capriati. 
For so long, nothing would ever top that moment for her. ``I was thinking 
about that,'' Capriati said on Saturday. ``I mean, that actually seems 
like another life. So this is a new life, a different life. It's actually 
like winning something for the first time again.'' She experienced 
a rebirth of sorts. As Capriati unraveled the plot of top-seeded Martina 
Hingis, 6-4, 6-3, in the final of the Australian Open, she found closure. 
If nothing else, she tied up one loose-ended question: will she ever 
be the same again? No, she is better. The 24-year-old Capriati is 
stronger, fitter and happier than she was when she turned pro 11 years 
ago. And more at peace with fame now than she was when she plunged 
into a dark adolescent period during the mid-90s. If the corporate 
world that once dumped her during her tailspin comes charging toward 
her again, a more mature Capriati seems poised to handle it this time 
around. ``I'm not going to let anything change me, change what I do 
or who I am,'' Capriati said. ``You know, I'm always going to do what 
I want. No matter how many companies or whatever comes at me, I'll 
just always stick to what makes me comfortable.'' Years ago, Capriati 
despised the constant corporate clawing of the tennis scene. In an 
attempt to escape, she dropped off the tour only to end up with her 
name in a police report after an arrest on misdemeanor marijuana possession 
in 1994. There were difficult times ahead, a stretch in her recovery 
that included drug rehabilitation. Throughout her most difficult times, 
Capriati received enough letters to understand how she has impacted 
others by not letting mistakes sabotage her life. ``I'm a little bit 
aware of it,'' Capriati said. ``If this helps somebody else, that's 
what I want. This is for them.'' On Saturday, the title to punctuate 
her circuitous comeback was for herself, also. But as she glanced 
at her father in the stands upon match point, Capriati seemed more 
pleased for the family that has stuck by her than for her own personal 
moment of glory. ``I'm a pretty critical person of myself,'' Capriati 
said. ``I want to remain humble because this has also come with the 
help of so many others.'' All alone on the court, Capriati fueled 
her own finish. She was the one who reached back and uncoiled a backhand 
blast on match point, sending a return whistling by a shell shocked 
Hingis. ``It was a winner down the line, but it was the slowest winner,'' 
Capriati said with a smile. ``It just kept, you know, going. I mean, 
as soon as I saw that it was clean, that I had done it, it really 
hit me. It was like, `Oh, my God.' I just jumped for joy. I mean that 
was it. I couldn't believe it just happened.'' In her own way, Hingis 
shared Capriati's disbelief. She did not underestimate Capriati, but 
Hingis never thought fatigue would take the toll that it did on her 
own body. In the span of 48 hours, she had pulled off an improbable 
daily double, defeating the Williams sisters on back-to-back days. 
With a day's rest in between, she still wasn't ready to face another 
heavy hitter capable of such sustained accuracy. ``I mean, when people 
said, `Yeah, you've won it already, next is Jennifer.' I said, `There's 
one more to go,''' Hingis explained. ``I knew I had to face a great 
player, otherwise she wouldn't have beaten Monica Seles and Lindsay 
Davenport here. Once you've made it to a final, you're not going to 
give up. ``I was just constantly getting more and more tired. In the 
last three days, I could barely walk. It was just after that match 
against Serena, going out against Venus the next day, then playing 
doubles, I was dead after that. It was too much.'' And Capriati was 
too good. She stung Hingis with a barrage of forehands into the corner, 
heated serves that kicked off the court and foot speed that allowed 
her to chase down every angled shot. She sapped the clever strokes 
right out of Hingis. But Capriati's victory did not come through a 
serendipitous route. If Hingis had a difficult path, so did Capriati. 
By the time she departed the Australian Open, Capriati had defeated 
fifth-seeded Monica Seles, second-seeded Lindsay Davenport and then 
the No. 1 player on the Tour, Hingis. ``I'm no longer going to doubt 
myself in anything,'' Capriati said. ``Now I know anything is possible. 
It's tremendous. Just from here on, I will always have the belief 
in myself that I can do anything.'' To get to this point wasn't easy. 
Only three years ago, she was forced to go through qualifying just 
to get into a major. Only six years ago, Capriati wanted nothing to 
do with a Tour that left her unsure just who she really was beneath 
all the hype. The circle she has traveled makes for a good story, 
one she could profit from if that's what she wants. ``I would never 
sell my story for anything,'' Capriati said. ``For now, no. Who knows 
down the road, but of course, only on my terms.''