The floors of the collapsed school are stacked on top of each other 
like four thick slices of bread and crushed between them are dozens 
of the sons and daughters of India's striving middle class, trapped 
when a powerful earthquake struck this thriving city in western India 
on Friday. On Saturday, rescue workers armed with drills, cranes and 
bulldozers, but mostly just their bare hands, continued a desperate 
effort to save the high school students still buried in the rubble, 
but all they dragged out were lifeless bodies _ adding to the death 
toll of 2,400 across the state of Gujarat. That number is expected 
to grow by many thousands as battalions of soldiers detailed to aid 
the victims reach remote villages close to the earthquake's epicenter 
west of here.Many angrily blamed poor construction for some of the 
quake's devastation. The Indian government's huge relief effort continued 
on Saturday, with helicopters airdropping food, blankets, clothing 
and medical supplies to areas cut off from roads and railways. One 
hundred and forty doctors from New Delhi and other parts of India, 
who volunteered to help treat an estimated 15,000 injured people, 
have been flown to the worst affected areas. The devastation from 
the earthquake _ which India said showed a preliminary magnitude of 
6.9 and the U.S. Geological Survey put at 7.9 _ is gravest around 
Bhuj, a city of 150,000 near the Arabian Sea and the epicenter of 
the earthquake. Still, about 350 people have perished here. In neighboring 
Pakistan, the quake was reported to have killed 14 people. Each individual 
story of loss has its own poignancy, but the fate of the students 
at the Swamimarayan school seems especially cruel. These teenagers, 
with their dreams of being doctors, computer scientists and engineers, 
had come to school on Republic Day, a national holiday when schoolchildren 
across the country stay home, for an extra science lab. About 65 of 
them showed up Friday morning at 7:30 a.m. sharp, with their physics 
instruments and chemistry books. They were in the middle of their 
lab, when the building started shaking violently at 8:46 a.m. Pragna 
Jagdishthandra, a slender 16-year-old talking a mile a minute, was 
sitting next to the door of her classroom when the earthquake began. 
She fled for the stairs. A trail of panicked students raced behind 
her. She made it out just as the four-story school building, less 
than a year old, crumbled from front to back with a thunderous roar. 
Others _ she is not sure how many _ escaped as well. ``But many of 
the children behind me were trapped,'' she said. ``It was very dusty 
and I couldn't see. But I clearly heard one girl's voice crying out, 
and my friend Priyanka was left behind.'' Friday afternoon, the rescuers 
did save five of the students, who managed to survive because pillars 
kept the roof from flattening them. ``We heard children crying, `Please 
save us,''' said D.K. Mishra, a doctor with the government's rapid 
action force, a paramilitary unit for emergencies. But the last living 
child was pulled from the wreckage Friday afternoon. Eight dead students 
were found Friday, and 20 more on Saturday. Officials said there could 
be 10 more still buried in the rubble. On Saturday, families and friends 
of the students, and people from the neighborhood, lined a hot, dusty 
alley behind the private school. They formed a sorrowful farewell 
line for the youths carried out on stretchers, their sneaker-clad 
feet peeking from under the sheets that covered them. From perches 
on the rooftops of surrounding buildings _ which all remained standing 
_ people watched and wept as volunteers and members of the rapid action 
force dragged body after body from the school. People lifted the cloths 
that covered the faces of the students as they passed, to see if they 
knew the victims. M. Jaysukhlalani, an accountant and father of a 
missing son, waited at the end of the line next to an ambulance. He 
had been there waiting 29 straight hours for his youngest son. But 
none of the four dead boys brought out at Saturday afternoon was his 
Sunil. Like many of the parents here _ and like many residents of 
Ahmedabad _ he noticed that most of the buildings in the city withstood 
the earthquake, while isolated ones like his son's school _ more than 
100 of them _ simply imploded. And like many others, he believed that 
shoddy construction was to blame. He bitterly wonders if some politically 
connected person got bureaucrats to look the other way, while using 
sand in place of concrete. He talked of one man's impotence against 
corruption _ a common complaint across India. ``A single man can't 
do anything,'' he said. ``Who will support him? No one.'' N.B. Parmar, 
the police inspector in the area, who was supervising the rescue effort 
on Saturday, agreed that the building appeared to lack sufficient 
cement. ``It will be investigated,'' he said. Kirti Gajar, another 
father, could not bear to watch the parade of the dead. So he and 
his wife, Meena Ben, stood across the street from the ruined school, 
clinging to a fast-fading hope that their only son would make it out 
alive. Like Sunil's father, Gajar, a civil engineer, spoke knowledgeably 
and with great composure about what he presumed to be the flaws in 
the school's construction, particularly with what he believes is an 
overabundance of sand in the cement mixture. ``No doubt this earthquake 
was a natural calamity,'' he said. ``We can expect some damage, but 
nothing like this.'' But when the conversation turned to the fate 
of his son, Gajar's composure crumbled. His hands shook, his eyes 
welled with tears. ``I can only know when I see his face if my son 
is still alive,'' he said. His wife then stepped up beside him. She 
had been there since the previous morning, unable to sleep, eat or 
drink. Her face was ravaged by exhaustion and worry. ``How can I eat 
when my son is not here?'' she asked.