i'm aaron brown. tonight help from around the world is arriving in 
india, where at least 2500 bodies have been recovered from the rubble 
of yesterday's earthquake, and the death toll is expected to rise 
much, much higher. the numbers don't nearly tell the story of the 
damage, the grief, and the fear in the aftermath of the huge 7.9 quake 
and the aftershocks that continue today. the epicenter was in the 
western state of gujarat, the town of bhuj hardest hit. richard gizbert 
tonight is in india. rescue teams have now reached bhuj, the town 
closest to the quake's epicenter. much of bhuj has been leveled, but 
no one knows how many of the 150,000 people who lived here have been 
buried. field hospitals have sprung up to treat the survivors. funeral 
pyres have been set alight to honor the dead. ahmed abahd is well 
south of the epicenter, but this is a city of 5 million. too many 
of whom lived and worked in shoddily constructed buildings that simply 
collapsed in the quake. this was a middle school called sacred flower. 
it was closed yesterday, except for one group of students called in 
by a dedicated teacher. 40 of the children are confirmed dead so far, 
and parents are waiting desperately for news of the rest. "there is 
no sound from under the debris now," he says. "yesterday we could 
he them. now nothing." rescue teams are working with whatever they 
can. sometimes it's heavy equipment, sometimes it's just hand tools. 
and there is growing frustration in this impoverished country with 
the relief efforts so far. "it's been 24 hours," she says. "my sister's 
son is trapped. no one is listening to us." another family in shock. 
they were preparing for a wedding celebration when the quake struck. 
now, they're planning funerals. the groom lived on what was the fourth 
floor of this building. he and his mother were among those killed. 
rescue efforts like this one will continue here throughout the night. 
many of those who survived this disaster, whose homes actually withstood 
the earthquake, will not be going home. grieving for their dead and 
fearful of aftershocks, they're sleeping outside after the worst earthquake 
to hit india in 50 years. richard gizbert, abc news, amhed abhad, 
india.