now to yugoslavia, where a people's revolt overhe past few days has 
led to a dramatic change. a new president was officially sworn in 
today, bringing an end to the reign of slobodan milosevic. nbc's jim 
maceda reports from belgrade. in a simple ceremony before the newly 
elected parliament, vojislav kostunica took his oath of office late 
tonight as president of yugoslavia, marking the end of 13 years of 
autocratic rule under slobodan milosevic. it was a scene few serbs 
would have deemed possible only weeks ago. but it almost didn't happen, 
delayed by milosevic's party, which still controls the parliament. 
after meetings earlier today with a series of foreign dignitaries, 
kostunica admitted that milosevic may be down, but not out. "difficult 
times are behind us," he said. "but the days ahead also hold many 
trials." his main priority -- bringing serbia back into the international 
community after a decade of economic sanctions. many believe he has 
the credentials. a man who believes in democracy but who holds strong 
serb views. seen here armed with a machine gun, supporting the serb 
cause in kosovo. in a recent interview with nbc news, highly critical 
of u.s. policy in the balkans, especially the indictment of milosevic 
for war crimes. in some sense, it is sort of interfering in the affairs 
of another state. kostunica had already publicly said he would never 
turn milosevic over to the hague tribunal. then, yesterday, just before 
milosevic publicly conceded defeat, a one-hour meeting with kostunica 
-- their first ever -- said to be cordial. details have yet to be 
revealed, but at the very least, sources say, there was an exchange 
of guarantees for kostunica, a peaceful hand-over of power. and in 
return, safety and comfort inside serbia for milosevic. milosevic 
even intends to continue his political career, as leader of his party, 
worrying many who opposed him. as long as he's on the soil of this 
state, no one will be able to sleep quietly. tonight, despite poor 
weather, thousands of serbs celebrated a new era of freedom, with 
the fate of their former dictator still in doubt. jim maceda, nbc 
news, belgrade.