Welcome to another hour of news and information on the Voice of America. 
I am David Chadwick with VOA News Now. Authorities in India's State 
of Gujarat say they have recovered more than 2500 bodies of people 
who died in Friday's earthquake, which had a magnitude of 7.9. It 
killed as many as 13,000 people, another 14,000 are injured. VOA's 
Jim Teeple reports from the State's most populous city. Workmen do 
their best to saw through the twisted metal girders and concrete at 
the Swami Narayanan school in a crowded Ahmedabad neighborhood. The 
school, which early Friday stood four stories tall, is now just a 
series of flattened concrete slabs. More than 30 children died inside 
the school when it collapsed around them early Friday. Only a handful 
of children survived. One of them, Jayshree Chandrika Thadani lies 
in the nearby LG Hospital with a broken leg surrounded by her relieved 
relatives. Jayshree says she cannot stop thinking about her lost friends. 
She says that she has escaped but her fellow-students all who have 
been dead, say supposingly dead, who have yet not been rescued. So 
she's very sad about them. Jayshree says as soon as the quake started, 
students and teachers rushed into a hallway to get out of the building 
but the hallway was too small and nearly all were trapped and killed. 
She says a teacher pulled her away from the building as it collapsed 
but her leg was smashed by a falling piece of masonry. The students 
had gone to the school to take a physics exam on Republic Day, a national 
holiday when nearly all schools and businesses are closed. Search 
and rescue teams here in Ahmedabad say by late Saturday it was unlikely 
they would recover anyone alive from the wreckage of about 50 buildings 
that collapsed in Friday's quake. Examining the wreckage of one apartment 
house known as the Mansi Building, structural engineer and geologist 
Jiten Parikh says he believes faulty construction was partially to 
blame for the collapse of many buildings. Almost 90% of the cases 
have been due to that because the structures, the limit allowed has 
been excess, like they take bribes and they allow their excess they 
don't see what the ground conditions are, they just build the buildings. 
That is the main reason why the things are happening like this. Life 
has largely returned to normal for most of Ahmedabad's residents. 
Most of the city was unscathed by Friday's quake and the Central Services 
such as water and power were restored to most areas within a matter 
of hours. State officials say despite the strength of the quake there 
was little damage to Gujarat's Industrial base. But for many in Ahmedabad 
life will never return to normal. Many of the grieving parents of 
the children who died at the Swami Narayanan School, who also blame 
faulty construction for the deaths of their children, continue to 
hold a vigil outside the school hoping at least one child will be 
found alive. Many others remain frightened, too frightened to return 
to their homes out of a fear of aftershocks. Rohit Trivedi and his 
family lived across the street from the Mansi Building, the building 
Jiten Parikh inspected. He says he will never forget what he saw after 
he fled his own apartment. So within a fraction of one minute we all 
vacated the premise and we saw the witness the whole Mansi Building 
collapse like you know pack of cards just collapsing. In front of 
our eyes, it was my wife was unconscious. Now Rohit Trivedi and his 
family will not reenter their building until they feel it is safe 
to do so. They are not alone, many other residents also will not return 
and have made a temporary camp in a large tent on the grounds of a 
temple across the street from their homes. Life on the street they 
say, is preferable at least temporarily, to living with fear. Jim 
Teeple, VOA News, Ahmedabad. Offers of aid and messages of sympathy 
are pouring into India from around the world after the deadly earthquake. 
Pakistani General Pervez Musharraf set aside regional differences 
to send a message of sympathy to India. He said Pakistan is saddened 
by the tragic loss of life and property. United Nations Secretary 
General Kofi Annan sent condolences to both countries as a five member 
UN earthquake assistance team prepares to head to India Sunday. President 
Bush says he is saddened by the devastation and offered US assistance 
to the region. Britain says it will send four and a half million dollars 
in disaster relief aid.