In sports, defending champion Andre Agassi takes on Frenchman Arno 
Clement Sunday in the finals of the Australian Open tennis tournament 
in Melbourne. Agassi scored wins over two time US Open winner Patrick 
Rafter of Australia and Davis Cup teammate Todd Martin on his way 
to the finals. Clement had a tough five set match against countryman 
Sebastian Grosjean in the finals. The two players have met four times 
before, the last time in Lyon France last year with Clement winning 
when Agassi retired after the first set. Agassi also lost to Clement 
in the second round of last year's US Open. The lifetime head to head 
match up is tied at two matches each. And here with more sports is 
VOA's Dave Byrd. The Baltimore Ravens enter Super Ball 35 much like 
the New York Giants, a group of players more talented as a team than 
as individuals. VOA's Jim Stevenson has this look at the Ravens as 
they make final preparations for Sunday's National Football League 
championship. The Baltimore Ravens boast the best defense in the League 
allowing opponents to score just 165 points shattering by 22 points 
the former record held by the 1986 Super Ball champions Chicago Bears. 
The Ravens led the NFL in six different defensive categories by the 
end of the regular season and held three playoff opponents to a total 
of 16 points. Tackles Tony Seraguso, Sam Adams and line backer Ray 
Louis anchor the smothering defense. Seraguso says Baltimore is preparing 
for any new plays the Giants might decide to try in the Super Ball. 
We're expecting anything because you have a lot of time to install 
you know new defenses, new offenses, you know gadgets on special teams 
and whoever handles that the best defensively is going to probably 
win the game. On offense a revived Trent Dilfer and rookie running 
back Jamal Louis have led the scoring attack along with receiver Shannon 
Sharp who won two Super Balls with the Denver Broncos. Dilfer's career 
sagged with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers before he came to Baltimore, 
but he says that experience made him better. When you go through difficult 
times you have two choices, you can get better or you can get better. 
And I know I can go to my grave knowing that I've gotten better as 
a football player and as a person because of it. Dilfer and the rest 
of the Ravens are hoping to add a Super Ball title to their career 
achievements. In Tampa Florida, Jim Stevenson, VOA sports. The US 
pro-football Hall of fame named its class of 2001 Saturday with the 
leader of the infamous No Name defense and the star of the Pittsburgh 
Stealers among the inductees. Former Miami Dolphins line backer Nick 
Bonecardi, former Pittsburgh wide receiver Lynn Swan, retired Buffalo 
Bills coach Marv Levee and Houston Oilers lineman Mike Munchak were 
named to the Hall of Fame. Bonecardi was a member of the Miami Dolphin's 
so called No Name defense, which helped lead the team to an undefeated 
season in 1972. Lynn Swan played on the Pittsburgh Stealers teams 
that won four Super Ball titles in the 1970s. Two former members of 
the Los Angeles Rams, tackle Jacky Slater and defensive end Jack Youngblood 
were named to the Hall. Also named in the class of 2001 was former 
Minnesota Vikings and Los Angeles Rams tackle Ron Yere. The class 
will officially be inducted in July in Canton, Ohio. Elsewhere in 
sports, South Africa's national football team defeated Burkina Faso 
1 to nothing in a World Cup Group E qualifying match in South Africa. 
The result leaves the host nation in second place in its group. Also 
on Saturday Nigeria defeated Sudan 3 to nothing in a Group B match. 
And that's sports, I am Dave Byrd. Also in sports earlier today in 
college basketball Notre Dam defeated Georgetown, Virginia routed 
Klempson and in a big game tonight the University of Maryland is hosting 
Duke University.