Former president Alan Garcia returned from exile to the cheers of 
supporters Saturday, launching his drive to recapture the presidency 
of the homeland he fled nearly a decade ago amid charges of corruption. 
Garcia _ who came to power a young populist but ended his term in 
1990 amid annual inflation topping 7,600 percent, surging rebel violence 
and rampant corruption _ landed at Lima's international airport shortly 
before sunset and immediately hit the campaign trail ahead of April 
8 elections. Reviled by many Peruvians as a silver-tongued crook who 
should never have returned, Garcia was met at the airport upon arrival 
from Colombia by some 3,000 placard-waving supporters, most members 
of his left-leaning Aprista party. ``After nine long years, I am here 
to confirm for all of you my commitment, my profound belief in Peru 
and its youth,'' Garcia told a cheering crowd of tens of thousands 
at a rally hours later in a downtown Lima Plaza. Hunched over a podium 
draped with red and white fabric, the colors of Peru's flag, he told 
the multitude: ``In this dramatic hour in which there is uncertainty, 
disillusion, anger and pain, I come to Peru with a proposal of hope, 
of work, of decentralization and democracy.'' Garcia, 51, tall and 
still dark-haired, comes back to a country rocked by corruption scandals 
left behind by his nemesis, former President Alberto Fujimori, who 
had long sought to imprison him. Fujimori is now in exile in Japan 
after being forced from office in November by the scandals surrounding 
his former spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. Peru's Supreme Court recently 
paved the way for Garcia's return with a ruling that the statute of 
limitations had run out on outstanding charges that he took bribes 
and kickbacks totaling several million dollars. He always denied the 
allegations and attributed them to political persecution by Fujimori's 
government. A special state's attorney assigned to his case is appealing 
the court decision. Garcia hopes to re-ingratiate himself with Peruvians 
increasingly cynical over the release of videos secretly recorded 
by Montesinos implicating judges, politicians, military leaders and 
businessmen in a web of corruption at the core of Fujimori's administration. 
But for many here, Garcia personifies an era marked by mismanagement, 
food shortages, corruption and rebel car bomb attacks and assassinations. 
``The people have amnesia,'' said Aquiles Reyes, 70, who stood at 
the outskirts of Garcia's welcoming rally. ``His government was crazy. 
They were thieves. They stole everything from the country. I'll kill 
myself if Alan becomes president.'' Garcia swept into office in 1985 
as Latin America's youngest president at the age of 36, hailed as 
``the president of hope'' and dubbed ``Latin America's Kennedy.'' 
Initially, his policies provided an artificial economic boom, spurred 
by massive spending that depleted Peru's reserves. He froze foreign 
debt payments at 10 percent of export earnings, turning Peru into 
a pariah among multinational lenders. Peru's economy collapsed, and 
Maoist Shining Path guerrillas surged in strength. By his last year 
in office in 1990, inflation topped 7,600 percent. After Garcia, most 
Peruvians initially tolerated, even lauded, Fujimori's iron-fisted 
rule, grateful to him for taming the rebel insurgencies and cleaning 
up an economic disaster. Garcia enters the race in a statistical dead 
heat with two other candidates for a distant second place behind U.S.-trained 
economist Alejandro Toledo, who is considered the early favorite to 
win. But many believe Toledo will not get 50 percent of the vote and 
will have to face the runner-up in a second round.