Soldiers pulled out three people trapped under rubble for 36 hours, 
the first found alive under collapsed buildings from India's devastating 
earthquake. Another powerful tremor Sunday shook the area, where 13,000 
are feared dead from the disaster. An army engineers corp, among the 
5,000 Indian soldiers deployed in the state of Gujarat, rescued two 
men and a girl on Saturday afternoon after digging through the fallen 
masonry of their homes in Bhuj, the town closest to the epicenter 
of Friday's 7.9-magnitude quake, said Capt. Amartej Singh. The condition 
of the three people was not immediately known. It was not known if 
they were related. Singh said his unit also recovered 10 bodies. But 
bolstered by their success in saving three lives, the soldiers started 
digging on Sunday through another mountain of rubble where a resident 
said he could hear his brother's voice. Rambhai Mulshankar, a 40-year-old 
goldsmith, led the soldiers to his fallen house. ``I can even now 
hear my brother's cries for help,'' Mulshankar said. BHUJ, India: 
Mulshankar said. About 2,500 bodies have been recovered so far. One 
official has said the death toll will reach 13,000 from the 7.9 magnitude 
temblor that hit Gujarat Friday. The rescue of the three people was 
the first report of anyone being pulled out alive from the rubble. 
On Sunday, an aftershock of about 5.9 magnitude hit the area, said 
V.K. Shukla, a seismologist at the government meteorology center in 
India's capital, New Delhi. The exact magnitude has not been calculated, 
but it is in the range of 5.9 and 6, with an epicenter about 12 miles 
from the epicenter of Friday's quake, he said. People rushed out of 
their homes as they were woken up by the tremor around 6.45 a.m. in 
Ahmedabad, the commercial capital of Gujarat state, where more than 
400 people died in Friday's quake. Homeless people sleeping in the 
open in biting cold also were woken up. While thousands of rescuers 
clawed at the rubble, stunned survivors waited for authorities to 
distribute water, food or medicine. Others refused to eat, keeping 
a tearful vigil as emergency workers' drills bit into concrete in 
search of their buried loved ones. In Bhuj district at the quake's 
epicenter, thousands of terrified people had fled in cars, jeeps and 
on foot, carrying their belongings. Many had been walking since soon 
after the temblor struck. Buses and trucks were forced to stop before 
a cracked bridge on a dry river that connects the district with the 
rest of the state. ``We have been walking since morning. We are fleeing 
for our lives,'' said Harjivan Vyas, 37, a factory worker in Bhuj 
town. ``There is no drinking water, no food. All houses are destroyed.'' 
Friday's quake struck on Republic Day, a national holiday. It shook 
the earth for more than 1,200 miles, but it hit hardest in Gujarat 
state, pulverizing cities and towns and bringing multistory buildings 
down like houses of cards. Gujarat Home Minister Haren Pandya said 
2,500 bodies had been recovered already and more than 14,000 people 
were injured. The state's transport minister said the death toll would 
soar. ``It will be more than 10,000 in the Kutch district alone,'' 
Bimal Shah told The Associated Press, referring to the region near 
the Pakistan border where the quake was centered. ``For the rest of 
the state it would be 2,000 or 3,000.'' Shah's comment was based on 
aerial surveys. His death toll estimate _ a much higher number than 
officials suggested earlier in the day _ was an indication that emergency 
crews had given up hope of finding many survivors under the debris. 
Among those buried were 350 children who had been taking part in a 
parade for Republic Day, which commemorates the adoption of India's 
constitution 51 years ago. They were marching through a Kutch street 
when several houses toppled onto them.