Soldiers digging through the ruins of crushed buildings Sunday pursued 
the faint voices of survivors of India's devastating earthquake, bolstered 
by the rescue of three people from the rubble. Home Minister Haren 
Pandya of the western state of Gujarat said 6,072 people were confirmed 
killed in Friday's quake, and the total was likely to be thousands 
more. ``There are many bodies buried inside, and there are many places 
with which we have no communications,'' he said. Police on Sunday 
were also hunting for some 200 criminals who escaped from a collapsed 
jail, Pandya said. Another magnitude-6 tremor shook the area Sunday 
morning. It was the largest aftershock yet, but no new damage was 
reported. The quake was centered 12 miles from the epicenter of Friday's 
7.9 temblor. Since Friday, more than 275 aftershocks have been reported, 
20 of them above magnitude 5. In a newly developed portion of Bhuj, 
lime and chlorine disinfectants mixed with the smell of dead bodies. 
People moved possessions from their homes and set up makeshift camps 
in two open areas using bed sheets as tents. ``This is death and destruction,'' 
said a bearded old Muslim man, sitting morosely on a string cot in 
Bhuj, the worst affected town. He refused to talk about his family 
and wouldn't give his name. ``I am just an unfortunate Indian. That 
is enough.'' In many buildings, the first floor had been shattered 
by the rocking earth while intact upper stories teetered precariously. 
At least three separate rescue operations were launched in Bhuj in 
places where residents reported hearing sounds of people. One of the 
sites was the Vaibhav Lakshmi apartment complex, a five-story building 
that that completely collapsed in a 15-foot-high pile of debris. ``We 
don't know who may be in there, but we heard sounds,'' said junior 
warrant officer R.P. Sachan. ``So many dead bodies have been brought 
out of this building.'' Sachan and his crew were using new cutting 
equipment and pneumatic jacks brought in by air force planes. In one 
place, rescuers made eye contact with a woman, Naina Badrasen Aur, 
and her 18-month-old daughter, Namrata, but had been unable to reach 
them. On Saturday, soldiers among the 5,000 Indian troops deployed 
in Gujarat rescued two men and a girl after digging through the fallen 
masonry of their homes in Bhuj. Indian Agriculture Minister Bhaskar 
Barua said the International Committee of the Red Cross had offered 
thousands of blankets, the Swiss government had sent sniffer dogs 
and assistance was also being accepted from the United States, Russia, 
Germany and Turkey. Norway and China had offered monetary aid, and 
Taiwan was prepared to send rescue workers. Japan offered to send 
35 rescuers but they were being held up by bureaucratic delays in 
India, Shusaki Hirashima, a Foreign Ministry official, said in Tokyo. 
Japan pledged nearly $1 million in cash and supplies. On Sunday, relief 
planes were landing every 10 minutes at Bhuj airport, where the terminal 
had been flattened but the runway survived. State carrier Air India 
announced Sunday it would waive cargo charges for relief material 
from anywhere in the world destined for the quake site. Jet Airways, 
a private Indian carrier, also was transporting relief supplies free 
of charge. More than half the houses in Bhuj, a city of 150,000 people, 
were reduced to rubble and the rest were damaged. In the congested 
old part of the city, dogs, pigs and cows foraged for food in streets 
made narrower by mounds of rubble. In one house, a clothes line hung 
limply with washed clothes caked with dust. Electricity poles were 
strewn everywhere. Thousands of terrified people fled in cars, jeeps 
and on foot, carrying their belongings. Many began walking just after 
the temblor struck. ``We are fleeing for our lives,'' said Harjivan 
Vyas, 37, a factory worker in Bhuj town. ``There is no drinking water, 
no food. All houses are destroyed.'' Among the dead were 50 teachers 
and 400 children parading through the narrow old city streets of Ajnar 
during Republic Day holiday celebrations. They were killed almost 
instantly when the earthquake knocked buildings down onto them from 
either side, said Bangaru Laxman, president of the Bharatiya Janata 
Party of Prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Ajnar is 30 miles southeast 
of Bhuj. The quake was the most powerful to strike India since Aug. 
15, 1950, when an 8.5-magnitude temblor killed 1,538 people in northeastern 
Assam state.