Vice President Al Gore, responding to intensifying Republican attacks 
on his credibility, said Saturday that he did not have a problem with 
embellishment that should cause concern about his character, and he 
accused Gov. George W. Bush of waging personal attacks rather than 
focusing on issues. In a 30-minute conference call with reporters, 
which was intended to highlight education issues that he will emphasize 
next week, Gore answered several questions about what Republicans 
are portraying as a pattern of exaggeration about often incidental 
matters. On Friday, Bush's running mate, Dick Cheney, said Gore ``seems 
to have a compulsion to embellish,'' and Republican strategists have 
made it clear that they will continue to press the issue. Gore acknowledged 
Saturday that he has made occasional factual mistakes, as when he 
said in Tuesday's debate that he had accompanied James Lee Witt, the 
director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, to inspect fire 
and flooding damage in Texas in 1998. Gore did visit Texas, but with 
one of Witt's deputies, not with Witt. Gore has said that he made 
the mistake because he has frequently made trips of that sort with 
Witt. In response to questions, Gore said that he did not have a tendency 
to embellish his resume, and that his misstatements did not point 
to a deeper character flaw. He then tried to turn the tables, asserting 
that he does not make personal attacks against Bush when the governor 
misstates the facts. He went on to describe two such comments. Gore 
said it ``could be characterized as an exaggeration'' when Bush said 
in the debate that the Gore campaign was outspending the Bush campaign. 
``But,'' Gore said, ``I didn't seize on that as anything other than 
a mistake that he made. When he said that there were 20,000 new bureaucrats 
called for in my budget plan, similarly I don't describe that as fictitious 
or an exaggeration. It's just a mistake on his part.'' Even as he 
pointed out Bush's ``mistakes,'' Gore said he was not denigrating 
his rival's character. ``These are negative personal attacks of the 
kind I simply do not engage in,'' Gore said. ``The Republican ticket 
announced a few weeks ago that they were going to adopt a new strategy 
of focusing on the issues, but they have completely abandoned that 
strategy, and they are focused almost entirely on personal attacks.'' 
Gore said his stood by his decision in the debate to illustrate the 
problem of school crowding by speaking of a 15-year-old girl in Sarasota, 
Fla., who had to stand in class. In fact, school officials have said, 
the girl was without a desk for only one day. ``They tried to make 
that out to be an exaggeration,'' Gore said of the Republicans. ``Well, 
excuse me, her father wrote me a handwritten letter, enclosing a picture 
on the front page of The Sarasota Herald Tribune of his daughter standing 
in class on the ninth day of school.'' If the girl later received 
a desk, he said, ``that doesn't change the fact that there are 36 
students in a classroom designed for 24.'' He also stood by his rebuff 
of Bush's suggestion that Russia should have tried to use its influence 
to persuade Slobodan Milosevic to leave office in Yugoslavia. Gore 
said that he was ``not sure it's right for us to invite the president 
of Russia to mediate this dispute there because we might not like 
the result.'' In fact, the White House had been doing just that, with 
President Clinton and American diplomats speaking to their Russian 
counterparts to solicit their support for democratic change in Yugoslavia. 
``I stand by exactly what I said,'' Gore said Saturday, ``that the 
instinct to involve them is not wrong, but we did not want to invite 
them to be the mediator if they did not agree to the right outcome.'' 
He added: ``It appears that they negotiated an arrangement to keep 
Milosevic in some form of political power as an opposition leader 
with his hand still in the affairs of Serbia. That is distinctly contrary 
to what we would like to see happen.'' Gore will leave on Sunday for 
Sarasota, Fla., where he planned to prepare for Wednesday's debate 
in Winston-Salem, N.C.