Angry survivors of India's severe earthquake accused authorities of 
conducting a sluggish rescue effort that has left thousands trapped 
under rubble as hope of their survival fades. Two days after the magnitude-7.9 
quake struck, state authorities were frantically looking for fork 
lifts, cranes and metal cutting equipment to reach trapped victims. 
Rescue workers and residents clawed through the rubble of collapsed 
buildings with sticks, iron rods and bare hands. More than 6,000 people 
were confirmed dead, and officials said the final death toll could 
be thousands more. ``We lost precious hours soon after the earthquake. 
Every state government officer we called was away at a parade. Even 
police came six hours after the quake,'' said Dhrumal Vaidya, a movie 
cameraman, on Saturday. State government officials were attending 
a military parade to commemorate the adoption of India's constitution 
in 1950 when the earthquake struck. In Vaidya's neighborhood of Ahmedabad, 
a six-story apartment block came crashing down, killing at least five 
people and trapping another 14 people under a heap of concrete slabs. 
At almost all the collapsed 42 buildings in the state capital, local 
residents complained they had to organize rescues themselves. ``The 
municipal corporation has not helped at all,'' Ashok Patel, a bank 
manager in a neighborhood where residents struggled to lift debris 
with a crane. ``We private citizens have arranged for this single 
crane,'' he said. ``We need at least another two cranes, but who will 
listen to us?'' Part of Patel's office caved in and the entrance was 
blocked by a 40-foot-long slab from an adjacent 10-story apartment 
building. Gujarat state's home minister, Haren Pandya, said authorities 
urgently need more cranes, gas torches, vehicles, bulldozers, blankets 
and medical equipment. ``Our need is so much more than what we have,'' 
he said. Some of the equipment in Ahmedabad was sent to Bhuj, a town 
of 150,000 people that was flattened because it was close to the epicenter 
of the earthquake. Gujarat's minister for transport and information 
technology, Bimal Shah, defended the government's efforts to help 
trapped people and urged people to wait for engineers and rescue specialists 
to arrive. ``Rescue operations after an earthquake is a specialized 
task,'' he said. ``You can't have people rushing in to pull at the 
masonry in a haphazard manner, especially if there are people trapped 
under the rubble.'' Vaidya blamed poor enforcement of construction 
standards for many deaths. ``So many buildings have come up in recent 
years which clearly wouldn't meet any of the building standards,'' 
he said. ``Unscrupulous builders get away with it, and it takes a 
tragedy like this for people to realize they've been cheated.''