Soldiers digging through the ruins of crushed buildings Sunday pursued 
the faint voices of survivors of India's devastating earthquake, but 
the official death toll of more than 6,000 was expected to climb by 
several thousand _ or several times. A 3-year-old girl was unearthed 
from the rubble in Anjar, 30 miles southeast of Bhuj, where 400 children 
were buried under toppling buildings as they marched in a holiday 
parade. ``She was chanting some Arabic verses,'' said a soldier who 
participated in the toddler's rescue. ``She was totally unscathed,'' 
he said, declining to give his name. Thousands of others were not 
so lucky. Home Minister Haren Pandya of the western state of Gujarat 
said 6,072 people were confirmed killed in Friday's quake. The toll 
was likely to go up to at least 10,000, he said. More than 14,500 
have been injured, the national government said. ``There are many 
bodies buried inside, and there are many places with which we have 
no communications,'' he said. K.N. Mahure, a fire brigade commander 
in charge of rescue efforts in Bhuj _ the hardest hit area in Gujarat 
_ put the possible toll even higher. ``There may be 20,000 to 30,000 
dead in Bhuj alone,'' Mahure said, adding he was basing his estimate 
on the number reported missing and the number found dead after three 
days of searching. ``But we are finding people alive,'' Mahure said. 
Near where the 3-year-old was recovered, rescuers spent five hours 
chipping at stones until they freed a 50-year-old man known only as 
Maganbhai. In shock, he was given sips of water as the workers pounded 
away at the rubble trapping his legs until they freed him. In Bhuj, 
air force troops and police followed the sounds of a baby's cry until 
they made eye contact with her and her mother. Hours later, 18-month-old 
Namrata was pulled out alive and rushed to an air force hospital, 
her pulse weak. Her mother, Naina Badrasen Aur, died before rescuers 
could reach her. Pandya said even though national and international 
aid had arrived, authorities urgently need more cranes, gas cutters, 
vehicles, bulldozers, blankets and medical equipment. ``The quantum 
of our need is so much more than what we have,'' he said. Prime Minister 
Atal Bihari Vajpayee appealed for Indians to contribute, ``no matter 
how small the amount,'' to help earthquake victims. He said federal 
emergency funds would not be enough, and noted ordinary Indians had 
helped the government meet the challenge of previous natural disasters. 
Indian Agriculture Minister Bhaskar Barua reiterated at a news conference 
Sunday that it was the policy of his government, which stresses Indian 
self sufficiency, not to ask for foreign aid. But he said India was 
thankful for the foreign help it had been offered, which included 
money and expert search and rescue help. Another magnitude-6 tremor 
shook the area Sunday morning. It was the largest aftershock yet, 
but no new damage was reported. The quake was centered 12 miles from 
the epicenter of Friday's 7.9 temblor. Since Friday, more than 275 
aftershocks have been reported, 20 of them above magnitude 5. In a 
newly developed portion of Bhuj, lime and chlorine disinfectants mixed 
with the smell of dead bodies. People moved possessions from their 
homes and set up makeshift camps in two open areas using bed sheets 
as tents. ``This is death and destruction,'' said a bearded old Muslim 
man, sitting on a string cot in Bhuj, the worst affected town. He 
refused to talk about his family and wouldn't give his name. ``I am 
just an unfortunate Indian. That is enough.'' At least three separate 
rescue operations were launched in Bhuj in places where residents 
reported hearing sounds of people. One of the sites was the Vaibhav 
Lakshmi apartment complex, a five-story building that that completely 
collapsed in a 15-foot-high pile of debris. ``We don't know who may 
be in there, but we heard sounds,'' said junior warrant officer R.P. 
Sachan. ``So many dead bodies have been brought out of this building.'' 
On Saturday, soldiers among the 5,000 Indian troops deployed in Gujarat 
rescued two men and a girl after digging through the fallen masonry 
of their homes in Bhuj. Barua said the International Committee of 
the Red Cross had offered thousands of blankets, the Swiss government 
had sent sniffer dogs and assistance was also being accepted from 
the United States, Russia, Germany and Turkey. Norway and China had 
offered monetary aid, and Taiwan was prepared to send rescue workers. 
Japan offered to send 35 rescuers but they were being held up by bureaucratic 
delays in India, Shusaki Hirashima, a Foreign Ministry official, said 
in Tokyo. Japan pledged nearly $1 million in cash and supplies. On 
Sunday, relief planes were landing every 10 minutes at Bhuj airport, 
where the terminal had been flattened but the runway survived. State 
carrier Air India announced Sunday it would waive cargo charges for 
relief material from anywhere in the world destined for the quake 
site. Jet Airways, a private Indian carrier, also was transporting 
relief supplies free of charge. More than half the houses in Bhuj, 
a city of 150,000 people, were reduced to rubble and the rest were 
damaged. In the congested old part of the city, dogs, pigs and cows 
foraged for food in streets made narrower by mounds of rubble. ``We 
are fleeing for our lives,'' said Harjivan Vyas, 37, a factory worker 
in Bhuj town. ``There is no drinking water, no food. All houses are 
destroyed.'' Among the dead were 50 teachers and 400 children parading 
through the narrow old city streets of Ajnar during Republic Day holiday 
celebrations. They were killed almost instantly when the earthquake 
knocked buildings down onto them from either side, said Bangaru Laxman, 
president of the Bharatiya Janata Party of Prime minister Atal Bihari 
Vajpayee. Ajnar is 30 miles southeast of Bhuj. The quake was the most 
powerful to strike India since Aug. 15, 1950, when an 8.5-magnitude 
temblor killed 1,538 people in northeastern Assam state.