Soldiers digging through the ruins of crushed buildings Sunday pursued 
the faint voices of survivors of India's devastating earthquake, but 
the official death toll of more than 6,000 was expected to climb by 
several thousand _ or several times. A 3-year-old girl was unearthed 
from the rubble in Anjar, 30 miles southeast of Bhuj, where 400 children 
were buried under toppling buildings as they marched in a holiday 
parade. ``She was chanting some Arabic verses,'' said a soldier who 
participated in the toddler's rescue. ``She was totally unscathed,'' 
he said, declining to give his name. Thousands of others were not 
so lucky. Home Minister Haren Pandya of the western state of Gujarat 
said 6,072 people were confirmed killed in Friday's quake. The toll 
was likely to go up to at least 10,000, he said. More than 14,500 
have been injured, the national government said. ``There are many 
bodies buried inside, and there are many places with which we have 
no communications,'' he said. Gujarat Chief Minister Keshubhai Patel, 
the state's top official, would say only the toll would reach ``five 
figures. Five figures can be anything _ 10,000, 20,000.'' Patel, speaking 
at a news conference, said some 125,000 people were ``not accounted 
for.'' Many could be buried under the rubble, but crowds have taken 
to the roads since the quake, afraid to stay in Gujarat, and that 
exodus has added to the confusion as officials try to count the missing. 
K.N. Mahure, a fire brigade commander in charge of rescue efforts 
in Bhuj _ the hardest-hit area in Gujarat _ put the possible toll 
even higher. ``There may be 20,000 to 30,000 dead in Bhuj alone,'' 
Mahure said, adding he was basing his estimate on the number reported 
missing and the number found dead after three days of searching. Bhuj, 
a desert town of 150,000 before the quake, was just miles from the 
epicenter. ``But we are finding people alive,'' Mahure said. Near 
where the 3-year-old was recovered, rescuers spent five hours chipping 
at stones until they freed a 50-year-old man known only as Maganbhai. 
In shock, he was given sips of water as the workers pounded away at 
the rubble trapping his legs until they freed him. In Bhuj, air force 
troops and police followed the sounds of a baby's cry until they made 
eye contact with her and her mother. Hours later, 18-month-old Namrata 
was pulled out alive and rushed to an air force hospital, her pulse 
weak. Her mother, Naina Badrasen Aur, died before rescuers could reach 
her. Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who was to tour quake sites 
Monday, appealed for Indians to contribute, ``no matter how small 
the amount,'' to help earthquake victims. He said federal emergency 
funds would not be enough, and noted ordinary Indians had helped the 
government meet the challenge of previous natural disasters. At the 
at the Kumbh Mela, a giant Hindu festival winding down in northern 
India, a religious leader said philanthropists offering free food 
to worshippers had been asked to shut down the tent kitchens and donate 
remaining food to quake victims. Indian Agriculture Minister Bhaskar 
Barua reiterated at a news conference Sunday that it was the policy 
of his government, which stresses Indian self sufficiency, not to 
ask for foreign aid. But he said India was thankful for the foreign 
help it had been offered, which included money and expert search and 
rescue help. Another magnitude-6 tremor shook the area Sunday morning. 
It was the largest aftershock yet, but no new damage was reported. 
The quake was centered 12 miles from the epicenter of Friday's 7.9 
temblor. Since Friday, more than 275 aftershocks have been reported, 
20 of them above magnitude 5. In a newly developed portion of Bhuj, 
lime and chlorine disinfectants mixed with the smell of dead bodies. 
People moved possessions from their homes and set up makeshift camps 
in two open areas using bed sheets as tents. ``This is death and destruction,'' 
said a bearded old Muslim man, sitting on a string cot in Bhuj, the 
worst affected town. He refused to talk about his family and wouldn't 
give his name. ``I am just an unfortunate Indian. That is enough.'' 
At least three separate rescue operations were launched in Bhuj in 
places where residents reported hearing sounds of people. One of the 
sites was the Vaibhav Lakshmi apartment complex, a five-story building 
that that completely collapsed in a 15-foot-high pile of debris. On 
Saturday, soldiers among the 5,000 Indian troops deployed in Gujarat 
rescued two men and a girl after digging through the fallen masonry 
of their homes in Bhuj. Barua said the International Committee of 
the Red Cross had offered thousands of blankets, the Swiss government 
had sent sniffer dogs and assistance was also being accepted from 
the United States, Russia, Germany and Turkey. Norway and China had 
offered monetary aid, and Taiwan was prepared to send rescue workers. 
Japan offered to send 35 rescuers but they were being held up by bureaucratic 
delays in India, Shusaki Hirashima, a Foreign Ministry official, said 
in Tokyo. Japan pledged nearly $1 million in cash and supplies. On 
Sunday, relief planes were landing every 10 minutes at Bhuj airport, 
where the terminal had been flattened but the runway survived. State 
carrier Air India announced Sunday it would waive cargo charges for 
relief material from anywhere in the world destined for the quake 
site. Jet Airways, a private Indian carrier, also was transporting 
relief supplies free of charge. More than half the houses in Bhuj, 
a city of 150,000 people, were reduced to rubble and the rest were 
damaged. In the congested old part of the city, dogs, pigs and cows 
foraged for food in streets made narrower by mounds of rubble. Among 
the dead were 50 teachers and 400 children parading through the narrow 
old city streets of Ajnar during Republic Day holiday celebrations. 
They were killed almost instantly when the earthquake knocked buildings 
down onto them from either side, said Bangaru Laxman, president of 
the Bharatiya Janata Party of Prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. 
But Patel, the chief minister, said eight children survived. The quake 
was the most powerful to strike India since Aug. 15, 1950, when an 
8.5-magnitude temblor killed 1,538 people in northeastern Assam state.