thanks for joining us. here's a look at our top story. there are some 
reports of rescues, but the death toll from the indian earthquake 
is expected to rise dramatically. more than 11,000 are confirmed dead 
since the quake friday. one indian official suggests the number could 
reach 20,000 to 30,000 in one western city alone. thousands of indian 
troops are aiding in efforts to uncover people trapped under the rubble. 
the government is also sending cranes, generators, and other equipment. 
hospitals in the commercial capital of ahmedabad are treating a steady 
stream of injured. in addition to providing medical assistance, officials 
say getting food and water to survivors is a top priority. the city 
of bhuj has been hardest hit by the quake. satinder bindra reports 
on rescue and medical relief efforts there. in the midst of all this 
death, destruction and despair, finally some hope. rescue workers 
have just pulled out 25 survivors. rama ben survived three days without 
food and water, buried under tons of rubble. they tried to take me 
out two days ago but failed. today, they took me out, but nobody thought 
of giving me water while i was buried. doctors say rama ben has a 
fractured left leg. she will soon be taken into emergency surgery. 
in the town of bhuj, relief workers and army soldiers have so far 
pulled out 1,000 injured survivors. many are children. all the survivors 
in bhuj are rushed to a makeshift, open-air army hospital because 
the quake demolished the town's main hospital. in the first few hours 
of the tragedy, dr. gautam lahiri was the only surgeon on the scene. 
he says he performed 50 operations in 12 hours and was frequently 
mobbed. they were basically trying to touch me, pull me in their direction 
-- telling me, to do my case first, take my child, why are you not 
taking my child first? to deal with 33,000 injured people in the quake 
zone, the indian government is now rushing in medical teams. over 
the past few days, army surgeons say they've performed 1,000 serious 
operations out in the open. at least 200 people have had their limbs 
amputated. hundreds of others have skull injuries, crushed bones and 
concussions. doctors say all these people are also emotionally traumatized. 
many so terrified of aftershocks, they prefer to sleep in the open 
rather then return to their demolished homes. survivor rama ben is 
still too shocked to decide what to do. all my children have died. 
my husband has died. i had three children. rama ben's only other daughter, 
urvashi jethwa, lives in leicester, england. she wants her to know 
she survived india's worst quake in 50 years. satinder bindra, cnn, 
bhuj, western india.