The army surgeon had just finished stitching a five year old girl's 
scalp back on her head on Sunday in a makeshift, open-air military 
hospital for earthquake victims when two doctors from New Delhi, who 
had volunteered to help, rushed up to him. ``We need an amputation 
set,'' Rajesh Malhotra, an orthopedic surgeon, said urgently. ``Please 
help us.'' A grandmother had been trapped for 52 hours under a heavy 
beam that had fallen on her thighs when her home had collapsed in 
Friday's earthquake. She was dying, the doctor said, and the only 
way to extricate her was to cut off her legs. Soon, soldiers brought 
Malhotra a small, shiny saw, still edged with blood from the last 
amputation, and bunches of bandages, syringes and other supplies. 
He and five other physicians _ all from the country's finest hospital, 
the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi _ jammed 
into a jeep to hurry to the woman's aid. The next two hours would 
give a vivid testament both to the bravery of the doctors and soldiers 
who were trying to rescue the quake victims, and to the frustrations 
of trying to do the job without needed equipment and resources. Army 
doctors working at the hospital on Sunday ticked off things they need 
more of: retractors, forceps, surgical instruments, splints and oxygen 
cylinders. The volunteers from New Delhi would add more items to that 
list once the afternoon was over. The flood of patients slowed on 
Sunday, two days after the earthquake that flattened parts of this 
city of 150,000, largely because most of the people still buried in 
the rubble had died. But Mahesh Solanki, a 29-year-old tailor, had 
managed to keep his mother, Nirmala, alive. She'd been on the ground 
floor of their three story home when it caved in. A beam penned her 
legs. She had been caught for more than two days, lying next to her 
dead husband. Solanki, limping himself and grieving for his father 
and two brothers, who had died in the collapse, gave her water and 
put a tin of biscuits within her reach. She hung on, begging him to 
get her out of that dark hole, illuminated only by a faint triangle 
of light from above. He tried to figure out a way, but the house is 
in the middle of a sea of rubble, where no crane or bulldozer could 
reach it to remove the heavy slabs of concrete that hovered above 
his mother. Nor was there any way to shift the beam off her legs without 
bringing the house down. Maj. Rajan Agarwal was searching for the 
living in the ruins when he found Salanki, saw that the only hope 
for the man's mother was amputation and took him to Malhotra, the 
orthopedic surgeon, for help. At 2 p.m. on Sunday, Malhotra and his 
team of doctors was clambering over huge piles of rubble to get to 
the family's home. It was only when they arrived that they realized 
the long odds they faced. ``There's a gentleman lying by her side,'' 
Malhotra said in a surprised tone. ``That's her husband, sir,'' Agarwal 
replied. ``The man is dead, sir.'' Not only would the doctor have 
to reach across her husband's body to reach the trapped woman, but 
there was only about six inches of space above her leg, giving the 
doctors scant room for sawing. And he would have to operate on her 
while lying on his stomach. The doctor also looked nervously at the 
huge cracks in the walls, and thought of the strong tremors that had 
occurred periodically since the earthquake. ``Are you sure this structure 
is safe?'' the doctor asked. ``It hasn't moved since this morning,'' 
the major answered. Malhotra did not seem reassured. He began to wonder 
out loud about whether to go forward. He worried about the woman's 
position, he worried about performing the surgery lying down, he worried 
about the house falling down on them. The major reminded him, ``Without 
this, she will die, sir.'' ``I wouldn't like her to die in my own 
hands, but I'm agreeing to it only because ...'' the doctor replied, 
his voice trailing off. So the job began. The doctors wanted a battery-operated 
electric saw, but there wasn't one handy. They called for a torch 
to light the dark space, and were handed a tiny flashlight. The saw, 
it turned out, was dull. Time was of the essence, since the cutting 
had begun. So the doctors called out to the soldiers to bring a knife. 
The men brought back a long machete, with a curved blade that looked 
not only dull but dirty. The doctors poured a germicide on it, and 
passed it in to Malhotra. That, too, wasn't sharp enough. ``Does anybody 
have a small hunting knife?'' the doctor cried out. Instead, the soldiers 
brought another machete with a shorter blade. Malhotra tried that, 
too. Finally, more than an hour after the surgery began, her legs 
were off. The doctors lifted her up and out of the house, and laid 
her on a stretcher. In a mournful tone, one of the young residents 
informed Malhotra, ``She's not breathing, sir.'' Malhotra, sweaty 
and blood-splattered, seemed to sink in on himself. ``I told her son 
she might die, but I was not prepared for it,'' he said in the jeep 
on the way back. As the ride neared its end, he said, ``A wiser man 
would have said no, and let her die there.'' But her son felt differently. 
He shook the doctor's hand, and told him he was grateful to him for 
trying to save his mother. Back at the military hospital, he wept 
over her body. When he said goodbye to Agarwal, who had done his best 
to save his mother, Solanki touched his forehead to the soldier's 
hands in thanks.