now turning to the tragedy overseas. in india, it was another long 
day of grim work. rescuers have been searching for earthquake survivors 
for three days. they found over 6,000 bodies and expect to find many 
thousands more. but as abc's richard gizbert reports, rescuers are 
not giving up yet. two days after the earthquake and 21 hours after 
they heard her calls for help, indian rescue workers finally pulled 
a 40-year-old women out of the rubble today. our army boys have made 
it successful and have been able to save a life. but it was just one 
life saved, among the thousands already lost here. this city's main 
hospital was flattened in the quake and a soccer stadium has turned 
into a field hospital. but the demand for aid of all kinds far outstrips 
the supply. we have specialists -- india clearly needs outside help 
and they got it today when a british search and rescue team arrived 
in bhuj. the british say if there are people still alive in the debris 
it's not too late to save them. it really depends on the way they're 
trapped, the kind of pocket that they're in and whether it's survivable 
on a little bit of water and food, which can help keep them going. 
the british team was immediately given a list of damaged buildings 
that the local police chief says contain the greatest numbers of missing 
people. you believe people are alive in these places? we expect people 
to be alive there. this is one of those buildings -- apartments that 
just three days ago were home to 32 families. the only survivors lived 
on the top floor, which remains largely intact. this wall clock was 
still keeping time there. the tragedy for 25-year-old onkar athale 
is that his parents lived on a lower floor. he took me to see what 
is left of their apartment. there it is, a checkered shirt over there. 
my father used to wear that one. and this mattress, also, i recognize. 
and when you saw this, what happened to your hopes? i lost my hopes. 
and what onkar and the others at this site cannot yet see, they can 
already smell. it's the stench of death. it's unmistakable, and in 
this city, it's unavoidable. richard gizbert, abc news, bhuj, india.