Briskly adapting to the fall of Slobodan Milosevic, who was a close 
diplomatic ally, President Jiang Zemin Saturday sent ``heartfelt congratulations'' 
to the newly elected president of Yugoslavia. In his message to Vojislav 
Kostunica, whose election was certified this week only after a popular 
uprising forced Milosevic to relinquish power, Jiang wished the new 
president ``a smooth job in his new lofty position and remarkable 
achievements in his endeavors towards the stability and prosperity 
of Yugoslavia,'' according to a report by the New China News Agency. 
China was one of Milosevic's staunchest supporters during last year's 
NATO campaign against Yugoslavia over Kosovo, where Milosevic's security 
forces were killing and repressing the majority Albanian population. 
China's vehement opposition to the NATO military action _ portrayed 
here as an imperialistic expansion of American ``hegemony'' using 
human rights as a pretext _ arose in part from China's own fear that 
foreign powers might some day support ethnic insurrections in Tibet 
or in the Muslim region of Xinjiang. Throughout the Kosovo bombing 
campaign, China's official media virtually ignored reports of ``ethnic 
cleansing'' and other Serbian atrocities in Kosovo and described Milosevic 
and his government as heroic defenders of the sacred principle of 
national sovereignty. The criticism of the NATO bomb- ing campaign 
grew much more shrill after U.S. planes bombed the Chinese Embassy 
in Belgrade in May 1999. Washington apologized, saying L that the 
bombing was an error, but the bombing caused a deterioration in Chinese-American 
relations and prompted massive demonstrations outside the U.S. Embassy 
in Beijing. When the International Tribunal in the Hague indicted 
Milosevic last year for alleged war crimes in Kosovo connected with 
ethnic cleans- ing by his security forces, the Chi- nese government 
described the in- dictment as an U.S.-led ``politi- cal scheme.'' 
In June this year, China's parliament leader, Li Peng, visited Belgrade 
for three days, where Milosevic presented him with Yugoslavia's highest 
medal, the Great Star. Milosevic, and particularly his Marxist wife, 
Mirjana Markovic, have long viewed Beijing and its Communist party 
as powerful L friends and the sort of ideological comrades they lacked 
in eastern Eu- rope after the Communist regimes of the Soviet bloc 
fell in quick succes- sion in 1989. But in the aftermath of the Kosovo 
war, Milosevic's international indictment and the rise of his domestic 
opponents, Li and other Chinese officials have generally stressed 
the common interests linking China and Yugoslavia rather than singling 
out Milosevic for praise. Saturday, a foreign ministry spokesman, 
Sun Yuxi, said that ``China respects the choice of the Yugoslavian 
people,'' adding that ``we believe that the change of situation in 
Yugoslavia will not affect the healthy development of China-Yugoslavia 
relations.'' The political turn in Belgrade has caused lively traffic 
on China's Internet bulletin boards, which last year were filled with 
anti-American venom. This time, many anonymous writers have made pointed 
comments about the success of democracy in Yugoslavia, with one saying, 
for example, ``Yugoslavs win democracy, how about us?'' and another 
saying, ``Milosevic's fall is making some people here nervous.''