From shootouts on dusty downtown streets to outlaws hanged at high 
noon, the West long ago earned a reputation for having its own brand 
of justice: swift and tough. Decades later, that reputation has lingered 
for Texas, which executes more convicts and has more prisoners behind 
bars than any other state. Prosecutors and victims' rights groups 
say the Lone Star State's criminal justice system is right on track. 
``Can you be too punitive when you're protecting innocent victims?'' 
said Dianne Clements, president of Justice for All, a Houston-based 
victims' advocacy group. ``The fact that Texas has a system run like 
a prison and not as a resort is something citizens should be proud 
of.'' But there's also no lack of critics. Defense attorneys say Texas 
prisons need more rehabilitation programs and a parole board kinder 
toward nonviolent offenders. And some of the seven prison escapees 
captured earlier this week after a six-week manhunt said their breakout 
was a statement about problems in the Texas penal system. Texas executed 
a record 40 prisoners last year, and has executed nearly three times 
as many as any other state since 1976. Two inmates have received lethal 
injection so far this year. Less than a fourth of eligible Texas inmates 
are released on parole. Although second in population to California, 
Texas had more than 163,000 people behind bars in 1999, ahead of any 
other state, according to the U.S. Department of Justice. Texas had 
762 prisoners per 100,000 residents in 1999, second to Louisiana with 
776 prisoners per 100,000 residents. Advocates also contend the state's 
legal aid system for poor defendants is less than vigorous. In October, 
three federal appeals court judges ruled a court-appointed lawyer's 
naps during a Texas death penalty trial did not violate the defendant's 
rights. The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals began hearing arguments 
in an appeal Monday. ``The Texas system seems out of line with much 
of the country,'' said Stephen Green, spokesman for the California 
Youth and Adult Correctional Agency. That wasn't always the case. 
Faced with prison overcrowding in the 1980s, Texas released thousands 
of inmates on parole rather than build more facilities. One of those 
set free was Kenneth Allen McDuff, who had been sentenced to die for 
killing three teen-agers in 1966. His death sentence was commuted 
to life in prison in 1972 after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down 
executions as then imposed. McDuff was released on parole in 1989, 
and was suspected in five women's deaths from late 1991 through early 
1992. He was convicted in two slayings and executed in November 1998. 
By that time, to thwart the release of dangerous felons and in response 
to a prisoner's federal lawsuit about brutal lockup conditions, Texas 
was spending billions on new prisons and improvements. The state's 
inmate population grew nearly 12 percent in 1990-99, the biggest growth 
in the country, according to the justice department. ``When you build 
prisons, judges will fill them up,'' said Gary Cohen, an Austin attorney 
who represents inmates eligible for parole. Texas prisons have long 
been considered secure, with less than two dozen breakouts each year. 
All Texas prison escapees except one have been captured, including 
143 in the last 10 years, according to state records. But prison security 
has been under scrutiny since December, when seven men overpowered 
guards and stole guns to break free of the maximum-security Connally 
Unit in Kenedy, near San Antonio. The group is charged with gunning 
down a policeman after robbing a Dallas-area sporting goods store 
Christmas Eve. Five were found early last week in Woodland Park, Colo., 
including one who committed suicide rather than be arrested. Before 
the remaining two surrendered, they negotiated for a brief televised 
interview. ``What forced me to do this was the penal institution and 
such,'' said convicted rapist Patrick Murphy Jr. ``The way Texas has 
things set up ... I'd eventually become an outlaw again anyway because 
of parole stipulations and such.'' ``They're giving kids so much time 
that they will never get to see light again,'' said Donald Newbury, 
who is serving a 99-year sentence for aggravated robbery. ``Their 
life is gone. Now all they are is a roach in a cage. Things have to 
be changed. There has to be more rehabilitation in the system down 
there.'' The court-appointed attorney for the group's alleged ringleader, 
George Rivas, urged Rivas not to agree immediately to be extradited 
to Texas. ``He's going back to a state that has an insatiable appetite 
for the death penalty,'' Deborah Grohs said. But Dallas County District 
Attorney Bill Hill says the group's alleged slaying of Irving police 
Officer Aubrey Hawkins, shot 11 times and run over, fits the definition 
of a crime warranting the death penalty. Victims' rights advocates 
agree. ``For those who are critical of the system, it's nothing but 
deflection of their own responsibility for their behavior,'' Clements 
said. Several state lawmakers do want to scale back capital punishment 
by prohibiting the execution of the mentally retarded and creating 
the sentence of life without parole. Another bill calls for improving 
access to legal aid. One lawmaker is trying to stop executions while 
a commission studies inadequacies in the system. Cohen, a member of 
the Texas Criminal Defense Lawyers Association, said he'd like to 
see more rehabilitation. ``The mentality in the prison system is, 
`We just need to lock them up,' '' Cohen said. ``But many of them 
will be out sooner or later, so why don't we do something productive 
with them while we have them?'' ___ On the Net: U.S. Department of 
Justice: http://www.usdoj.gov Texas Department of Criminal Justice: 
http://www.tdcj.state.tx.us