Exhausted searchers using everything from sophisticated rock-cutting 
tools to their bare hands clawed through rubble Sunday, hoping to 
find survivors lingering among the thousands believed buried by western 
India's massive earthquake. More than 6,000 bodies had been found 
since Friday's quake, and the death toll was expected to go much higher. 
Some authorities estimated it would reach 10,000; others said 16,000 
or more. A leading rescue official said there could be up to 30,000 
dead in one town alone. As India's prime minister appealed for help, 
frantic rescuers and sniffer dogs uncovered a few signs of life Sunday 
amid the destruction in Gujarat, the western Indian state that took 
the brunt of the blow. In Anjar, 30 miles southeast of the hardest-hit 
town, Bhuj, a 3-year-old girl was unearthed from the rubble alive. 
``She was chanting some Arabic verses,'' said a soldier who participated 
in the toddler's rescue. ``She was totally unscathed,'' he said, declining 
to give his name. Across town, sniffer dogs located another sign of 
life in a heap of rubble. After three hours of digging, soldiers found 
a man, only his face visible under twisted and crumpled masonry. Unable 
to reach him, rescuers released water from a plastic pouch, drop by 
drop, into his mouth. Chipping slowly at the blocks so as not to unsettle 
the unstable mound, the soldiers removed the pieces of debris one 
by one. Three hours later, the man was free, and a cheer went up in 
the crowd. Too weak to speak, too exhausted to smile, the man, identified 
only as Maganbhai, was carried away. In Bhuj, a desert town just miles 
from the quake's epicenter, workers dug for 30 hours and shouted with 
joy when they found a baby and her mother alive in the rubble. The 
digging to free the pair took hours more. When it was finished, the 
baby girl, 18-month-old Namrata, was still alive, her pulse weak. 
Rescuers rushed her to the hospital in an ambulance. But the mother, 
Badrasen Aur, had died in the concrete heap. Next door, a woman named 
Das had spent two days trapped in bed with the corpses of her husband 
and young daughter. Her head was bloated and purple from lack of circulation. 
Rescuers talked to her and gave her water and a biscuit to eat as 
they struggled to widen the hole they had made in the wall of her 
sunken bedroom. Authorities will know by Monday if any more people 
are alive under the rubble, Gujarat State Home Minister Haren Pandya 
said. The emphasis will then switch to clearing the rubble and removing 
the dead bodies. Friday's magnitude-7.9 quake _ India's strongest 
in more than 50 years _ struck on Republic Day, a national holiday 
here. It shook the earth for more than 1,200 miles and was felt in 
Nepal, Bangladesh and Pakistan, where 10 people were crushed in their 
houses. More than half the houses in Bhuj, a city of 150,000 people, 
were reduced to rubble and the rest were damaged. In the congested 
old part of the city, dogs, pigs and cows foraged for food in streets 
made narrower by mounds of rubble. In a newly developed portion of 
Bhuj, lime and chlorine disinfectants mixed with the smell of dead 
bodies. People moved possessions from their homes and set up makeshift 
camps in two open areas using bedsheets as tents. ``This is death 
and destruction,'' said a bearded old Muslim man sitting on a string 
cot. He refused to talk about his family and wouldn't give his name. 
``I am just an unfortunate Indian. That is enough.'' By Sunday, foreign 
aid was pouring in: Cranes, generators, cutting tools, sniffer dogs, 
seismic monitors and poles with long cameras attached had begun to 
arrive along with experienced teams of rescuers from places such as 
Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Turkey. Indian Agriculture Minister 
Bhaskar Barua said about 750 doctors and other health workers, more 
than 5,000 rescue workers, dozens of bulldozers, 36,000 blankets and 
10,800 tents had been sent. But Pandya, the Gujarat home minister, 
said authorities urgently needed even more rescue equipment and medical 
supplies. ``The quantum of our need is so much more than what we have,'' 
he said. Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who was to tour 
quake sites Monday, appealed for Indians to contribute, ``no matter 
how small the amount,'' to help earthquake victims. He said federal 
emergency funds would not be enough. ``We cannot leave our brothers 
and sisters to the mercy of fate or the cruelty or vagaries of nature,'' 
United News of India quoted Vajpayee as saying. The Gujarat state 
government said 6,181 people were confirmed killed in Friday's magnitude-7.9 
quake. More than 14,500 have been injured, the national government 
said. Estimates of how much higher the death toll would go varied 
widely. ``There are many bodies buried inside and there are many places 
with which we have no communications. But our projection is that the 
toll would be 10,000,'' Pandya said. Gujarat Chief Minister Keshubhai 
Patel, the state's top official, would say only the toll would reach 
``five figures. Five figures can be anything _ 10,000, 20,000.'' Patel 
said some 125,000 people were ``not accounted for.'' Many could be 
buried under the rubble, but crowds have taken to the roads since 
the quake, afraid to stay in Gujarat, and that exodus has added to 
the confusion as officials try to assess the tragedy. K.N. Mahure, 
a fire brigade commander in charge of rescue efforts in Bhuj, put 
the possible toll even higher. ``There may be 20,000 to 30,000 dead 
in Bhuj alone,'' Mahure said, adding he was basing his estimate on 
the number reported missing and the number found dead so far. The 
quake was the most powerful to strike India since Aug. 15, 1950, when 
an 8.5-magnitude temblor killed 1,538 people in northeastern Assam 
state. On Sunday morning, a tremor of magnitude 6 shook the Gujarat 
area. It was the largest of more than 275 aftershocks recorded here 
since the initial quake.