When the earthquake struck, this city was filled with the voices and 
giggles of 400 children marching through narrow streets with their 
teachers in a parade to mark India's Republic Day. Now, two days later, 
Anjar is overwrought with death, and the silencing of those voices 
is a potent symbol of the tragedy that struck here: The children and 
their 50 teachers were swallowed as they marched by the cataclysmic 
quake that flattened this city and many others. All but eight of the 
children died when the ground caved in and buildings on both sides 
of the street crashed over them, said Keshubhai Patel, the chief executive 
of India's western Gujarat state, where Anjar is located. ``Some 10 
to 12 children had been pulled out, out of the 400. Out of these, 
only eight were alive. The rest perished,'' he said, correcting an 
earlier report from a leader of his political party who said there 
were no survivors. Soldiers _ who have traditionally played the role 
of India's main rescue and relief agency in times of natural disasters 
_ used sniffer dogs to pull out bodies. Meanwhile, a couple of dogs 
located a sign of life in a heap of rubble in another part of the 
town. After three hours of digging, soldiers found a man, only his 
face visible under twisted and crumpled masonry. Unable to reach him, 
rescuers released water from a plastic pouch, drop by drop, into his 
mouth. Chipping slowly at the blocks so as not to unsettle the unstable 
mound, the soldiers removed the pieces of debris one by one. About 
two hours later, his torso was free, and another hour of labor had 
freed him. A cheer went up in the crowd: ``Jai siyaram!'' they shouted 
_ ``Glory be to Ram!'', a reference to the Hindu warrior god Ram. 
A makeshift stretcher was fashioned from a bed sheet for the man, 
identified only as Maganbhai. Four people held the sheet's corners 
as Maganbhai _ too weak to speak, too exhausted to smile _ was carried 
away. He had survived in the rubble for two days and two nights without 
food or water. Also in Anjar, soldiers who had been digging for hours 
perked up when they heard a small voice chanting. When the slabs of 
concrete were finally removed, the rescuers found a little girl praying 
in Arabic, the language of Islam's holy book. The girl, who looked 
3 years old, was pulled without a scratch from the rubble of her home 
Sunday, more than 52 hours after she was buried in the earthquake. 
Her name was not known and no relatives immediately came forward to 
claim her, said an army officer who led the rescue. ``She was totally 
unscathed. I don't know what she was saying but it was in Arabic. 
Probably something of her religion,'' he told The Associated Press. 
Like other rescue workers, he refused to give his name, saying it 
was not important.