For 30 hours, police and air force troopers dug through the rubble. 
Then a cheer went up: Drawn by an infant's cries, the weary rescuers 
saw a woman and a baby alive in a pocket of safety amid a mound of 
dust, concrete and twisted metal. The men used an iron pole to punch 
a hole in the concrete on Sunday evening and made eye contact with 
Naina Badrasen Aur and her 18-month-old daughter, Namrata. After patting 
each others' backs in relief and congratulations, the men called for 
silence so they could speak to the mother. Joined by a special police 
unit with pneumatic cutting tools, the air force team then set to 
work breaking through the metal reinforcing the concrete around the 
pair. From the moment of hearing a cry or spotting movement, it can 
take hours of careful digging before a survivor can be pulled out, 
and during the two hours that followed the troopers' discovery, Namrata 
stopped crying and her mother stopped talking. The troopers grew glum 
as they struggled to cut the hole wider above the baby. Dangling just 
above their heads were the hand and foot of a woman crushed to death 
in the concrete. They had no time to move her body. Finally, one man 
crawled head first into the hole and lifted Namrata out _ alive, but 
with a weak pulse. Everyone cheered as a man in a turban wrapped a 
cloth around her and ran down the street to hand her to medics. They 
gave her first aid and took her by ambulance to an army hospital. 
It was too late for Namrata's mother, though: Before the troopers 
could pull her out, she had died in the concrete heap. During the 
rescue operation, workers heard a woman's cry from the building next 
door. Digging there, they found Chetna Mangal Das, 36, who had spent 
more than 48 hours trapped in bed with the corpses of her husband 
and young daughter. Rescuers were able to talk to Das and give her 
water and a biscuit to eat as they struggled to widen the hole they 
had made in the wall of her sunken bedroom. Her head was bloated and 
purple from lack of circulation. This community of 150,000 located 
60 miles from the Pakistan border was the worst hit in the magnitude-7.9 
quake that ravaged western India on Friday. Bhuj, just miles from 
the quake's epicenter, is a ghost town now. As the troops from a nearby 
air force base went from building to building looking for signs of 
life, only the scrape and clink of tools could be heard amid the silence. 
On Sunday, the air force men searched in the hardest-hit part of Bhuj, 
an area where recently erected multistory apartment buildings had 
collapsed. Around the rescue workers, high-rise buildings leaned as 
much as 20 degrees. In most cases, the bottom floors of the buildings 
had crumbled, leaving higher floors tilting, but still erect. Cracks 
ran through peach-colored concrete walls. By Sunday night, almost 
three days had passed since the quake, and hope for more survivors 
was fading. Many had not given up, though: Sanjay Jayantilal Gaur, 
24, his head bandaged and his shirt covered with blood, was one of 
the few civilians working alongside the air force men and a special 
police unit as they dug to save Badrasen Aur and her baby. He thought 
some of his relatives may have been trapped in the same building. 
``We heard their voices and we had to get them out,'' he said. ``We 
had to do what we could.''