This is VOA News Now. I am Kent Kline in Washington. India is seeking 
international aid to help with its massive relief operation after 
the devastating earthquake, which struck the country Friday. The official 
death toll is more than 6000 but Anjana Pasricha reports from New 
Delhi that authorities say that number could be several times higher 
because thousands of people are missing. As night fell on the most 
affected areas of Western Gujarat State thousands of homeless survivors 
lit bonfires as they prepared to spend a third night in the open. 
The Indian armed forces have mounted one of their largest relief operations. 
Civilians, border guards and international relief workers have joined 
the effort. More than 40 planes are ferrying food, water, medical 
equipment, tents and blankets for the earthquake victims. But the 
rescue effort is struggling to cope with the massive disaster. State 
Home Minister Harin Pandya says although national and international 
aid is arriving, authorities urgently need more cranes, gas cutters, 
vehicles, bulldozers and medical equipment. India's Finance Minister 
Yashwant Sinha says the country is seeking 1.5 billion dollars in 
loans from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank to help recover 
from the country's worst earthquake in five decades. Expert teams 
of rescue workers have managed to find a few survivors under the debris 
but hope is fading for those still buried under the rubble. Those 
rescued included a three-year-old girl and several school children. 
Concern is rising about health hazards if all bodies are not removed 
soon. The Chief Minister of Gujarat Keshubhai Patel has warned people 
to be on maximum alert because aftershocks may continue to rock the 
region during the next few days. Western India has already been hit 
by more than two hundred tremors since the initial earthquake, including 
one that measured 5.9 on the Richter scale. The aftershocks have panicked 
residents and many are leaving areas ravaged by the earthquake. Hundreds 
of people are reported to be moving out of the town of Bhuj, which 
lay close to the epicenter of the earthquake and where more than half 
the houses have been flattened. Power and communication links have 
still not been restored in the worst hit areas. Indian officials have 
cancelled the traditional military ceremony that was to take place 
Monday to mark the end of the country's Republic Day celebrations. 
Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee has appealed to the country to 
contribute no matter how small the amount to help the earthquake victims. 
The massive earthquake hit India on Friday when the country was in 
the midst of its Republic Day celebrations. Anjana Pasricha for VOA 
News New Delhi. Among those providing aid to victims in the quake 
ravaged section of India is the private agency known as World Vision. 
World Vision spokeswoman is Sheryl Watkins. Speaking from her home 
in Seattle Washington she told VOA's Tom Crosby the agency has been 
working around the clock to help and was on the scene minutes after 
the earthquake struck. The quake hit in an area where we already had 
ongoing community development work. So our staff were on the ground 
within hours seeing what people needed that were already in our projects, 
distributing food and setting up a feeding center, seeing what aid 
needed to be delivered. I have the feeling though that the staff must 
have been overwhelmed by what it saw. Certainly, you know just in 
Ahemdabad you know hotel, shopping centers, schools, everything is 
down. You know the largest city in the State and the place that would 
naturally be the source of mounting a relief effort and the city itself 
is in bad shape. Now most often agencies such as yours request financial 
aid so that what is needed can be bought locally on the ground but 
I suspect given the vastness of the devastation there that might be 
almost impossible to do. Well, for the immediate needs that we are 
trying to meet - food, blankets they are available locally and so 
our staff there have been able to purchase what they need and what 
they have the capacity to provide. You know the devastation was massive 
but remember this is a country with billion people. It's a very large 
country and there's a lot of the country that was not affected by 
it. So for the short term we are able to get what we need, longer 
term we'll see if any additional aid will need to be brought in. Short 
term too there must be some immediate housing needs for these people. 
There are. We first provided food and blankets for warmth. It gets 
down to 45 degrees or 7 degrees centigrade at night, so we are doing 
that. But the next step will be to provide plastic sheeting and tarp. 
What about long term? What do you see the needs being there? Is it 
just too early to talk about that now? It is too early but from a 
previous experience in Central America and elsewhere you know we know 
that housing will be a long-term need and a very expensive one. You 
know the short-term needs are fairly cost effective to provide except 
when there are hundreds of thousands of people who need them. But 
when you're talking about every family needing a home... you know 
in Honduras after Hurricane Mitch we figured upwards of 5000 dollars 
per home and there's a lot of homes that have been destroyed. Sheryl 
Watkins is a spokeswoman for the private aid agency World Vision.