A few hours after winning the Australian Open, Andre Agassi returned 
to his hotel soaking wet. Not because of the match _ he hardly broke 
a sweat in beating Arnaud Clement 6-4, 6-2, 6-2 Sunday. Agassi celebrated 
with a private swim, apparently duplicating Jim Courier's dive into 
the nearby Yarra River after winning the title in 1992 and 1993. ``We 
took a dip,'' said Agassi's coach, Brad Gilbert, who was soaked to 
the skin, too. Agassi and Gilbert showed up late for a post-tournament 
photo shot and told Jane Fraser, a representative of the International 
Tennis Federation, the delay was because of an impromptu splashdown. 
They wouldn't say where they went, but Fraser said from the looks 
of them at the hotel earlier _ Gilbert in bare feet, Agassi in a sopping 
tennis shirt and shorts _ they had hit the river. With seven Grand 
Slam titles, Agassi is looking for new ways to mark them. The most 
naturally gifted baseline basher of his generation gives the impression 
he's improving with age. ``My best tennis can still be ahead of me,'' 
Agassi said. Agassi was an international celebrity at 18, a Grand 
Slam finalist at 20 and a Wimbledon champion at 22, so he's not exactly 
a late bloomer. But on Sunday he joined a rather exclusive club of 
Grand Slam champions in the 30-and-over division. Boris Becker, Stefan 
Edberg, Ivan Lendl, John McEnroe and Mats Wilander never won a major 
title after turning 30. Neither did Courier or Bjorn Borg, who both 
retired before reaching the milestone birthday. But Agassi, who will 
be 31 in April, shows no signs of a letup. He has won four Grand Slam 
titles since turning 29. ``You know, a man needs to work,'' Agassi 
said with a smile. ``If I do this well, I might as well work here. 
It's important to me just to pay a price _ to assess how your day 
was at the end of it. I can't think of a better way to do it than 
playing the game of tennis.'' Projections are always dangerous with 
Agassi because his career has been so erratic. He won the 2000 Australian 
Open, then didn't win another tournament or reach another Grand Slam 
final the rest of the year. Injuries and illnesses in his family were 
factors in the slump. But he believes he can build on his third title 
at Melbourne Park. ``This is a great steppingstone,'' Agassi said. 
``I think I'll be a little smarter this year. After this tournament 
last year, I felt very tired and physically struggling. This year 
I don't. ``I think if I really play my cards right, this can be the 
start of an incredible year.'' Agassi has won each of the Grand Slams, 
and he could win any or all of them again. The next major tournament 
will be the French Open beginning in May. The younger generation _ 
Gustavo Kuerten, Marat Safin, Magnus Norman, Lleyton Hewitt _ must 
be reckoned with, and much can happen in the next 3 1/2 months, but 
Agassi could very well arrive at Roland Garros as the favorite. His 
experience, baseline power and exceptional fitness are a formidable 
combination that allows him to wear opponents down. He did it to Patrick 
Rafter in the semifinal and then to the 23-year-old Clement in the 
final. ``He ripped me apart from the baseline,'' Clement said. ``From 
the backcourt, nobody in the world could have beaten him today. In 
that part of the game, he's the best.'' By dominating from the start, 
controlling the points and forcing Clement to do most of the running, 
Agassi made it look easy. ``I don't self-inflict and throw curves 
at myself as much anymore,'' Agassi said. ``I don't make it tougher 
on myself. But to say it was easy would be misleading.'' He has long 
been praised as one of the most skilled ball-strikers in history, 
and now his trophy collection is beginning to reflect his talent. 
Agassi's seven major titles put him 10th on the men's list, tied with 
McEnroe, Wilander, John Newcombe and five others. He moves ahead of 
Becker and Edberg, who won six major titles each. He and Wilander 
are the only men to win three Australian Open titles in the Open era. 
``It's history,'' Agassi said. ``The more experience you get, the 
more you allow yourself to enjoy it.'' And now he's a thirtysomething 
champion, which is a rarity but not unprecedented. After turning 30, 
Ken Rosewall won four Grand Slam titles and Jimmy Connors won two. 
Agassi? ``It's been a year since I've won,'' he said. ``I'll do my 
best not to make it another year until I win again.''