Andre Agassi was standing across the net from the same affable Frenchman 
he had faced only five months earlier inside Arthur Ashe Stadium. 
It was Arnaud Clement again, the same baseline player who wears the 
wraparound sunglasses, the same tireless scrambler who stands the 
size of hotel soap. On a day in late August, this was the man who 
upset a distracted Agassi in the second round of the U.S. Open. Sunday, 
nothing was the same, especially Agassi. With an almost impenetrable 
focus, he could have snatched flies with chopsticks as he methodically 
disassembled Clement's dreams, 6-4, 6-2, 6-2, to win his second Australian 
Open title in a row. It seemed unfathomable, but this was the 30-year-old 
Agassi's first tournament title of any size in 12 months. Last year, 
he became physically worn down by a demanding schedule that dragged 
him across 26,000 miles in one six-week period, and he was emotionally 
drained by a difficult family situation that sapped his spirits. By 
the time he reached Queens, Agassi could only stare blankly at Clement 
when more important issues than tennis were on his mind. His thoughts 
were on his mother, Elizabeth, and sister, Tammee, both of whom were 
fighting breast cancer. Agassi wanted to be there, not on a court 
at the U.S. Open. ``For where my mind was, it was more than being 
in a place where I didn't want to be,'' Agassi said Sunday, about 
an hour after his victory. ``It was that I knew where I wanted to 
be. And that was definitely at home with my family.'' As he has always 
tried to do, Agassi set priorities. He took two months off before 
returning to the ATP Tour. He concentrated on his family and poured 
his attention into their needs. ``It's not about going away and getting 
right for the game of tennis,'' Agassi said. ``It's about the battle 
at hand. And sometimes they're on the court, and sometimes they're 
not.'' His mother and sister continue to fight. But Agassi broke into 
a smile when he happily reported that Tammee had recently completed 
her treatment. While he is in awe of their courage, and thinks of 
his sister and mother constantly, he is now better equipped to handle 
his family situation. These days, Agassi is in good spirits. And just 
as important to his tennis, he is in the best shape of his life. In 
December, Agassi dedicated himself to his most intensive training 
camp ever, all under the watchful eye of his longtime conditioning 
guru, Gil Reyes. He was the witness to the number of times Agassi 
sprinted up the steep hills outside Las Vegas. And he was the one 
hovering over Agassi when he threw up on Christmas Day because he 
pushed himself too hard. ``We'd get to the point in the intensity 
of a session where there were tears in his eyes and burning in his 
lungs and legs,'' Reyes said before Agassi rounded the corner and 
greeted him with a hug after the on-court ceremony. ``I'd see him 
get sick on the side of the hill, but come right back and work harder. 
I'd tell him, `You'd better know why you're doing this.' Almost symbolically, 
he found out against Rafter.'' In the hot, humid air that hung over 
the semifinals last week, Patrick Rafter was nearly immobile by the 
end of the night against Agassi because of the muscle cramps that 
seized his legs. Agassi could have played all night. Sunday, Agassi 
did not have to extend himself. It took him 1 hour 46 minutes to decode 
Clement's approach to the match. For two weeks, Clement's speed had 
enabled him to prolong rallies against Yevgeny Kafelnikov and stretch 
points against his friend Sebastien Grosjean until they snapped under 
the pressure. Agassi simply nipped the points off early with return 
winners down the line and forehands that cut the angles off the court. 
Not even Clement could chase down those shots. And on the most critical 
points, Agassi had the nerve while Clement typically buckled with 
an unforced error. For much of the day, Clement busily wiped his familiar 
prescription sunglasses. In some ways, he could not believe his eyes. 
As quick as he was, Agassi was fleet, too. As skilled as he was at 
counterpunching, Agassi was able to absorb every blow. ``It was OK 
out there; I was not very nervous,'' Clement said. ``Today, he was 
just too strong for me, way too strong.'' Clement was frustrated by 
the quick ending, but the born entertainer was a hit at the trophy 
ceremony. In front of a microphone, he pulled two sheets of notebook 
paper out of his pocket. As the first Frenchman to reach an Australian 
Open final since 1928, Clement wanted to mark the occasion. He had 
something he wanted to say, and he wanted to say it in English. ``I 
have my speech on paper,'' Clement said with a smile. ``First, I'd 
like to say it's been two amazing weeks in my career.'' He continued 
on, thanking his coach for ``coping with my temper,'' and then he 
hesitated as he perused his speech. ``Skip that,'' he said with a 
laugh, skimming past the part he would have read had he won. As the 
crowd chuckled at the good-natured Clement, Agassi was getting a kick 
out of the scene, too. ``I didn't prepare anything,'' Agassi said 
when it was his turn to speak. ``Can I borrow your speech?'' Agassi 
could remember being as young and as wide-eyed as the 23-year-old 
Clement. Over the years, Agassi has grown as much as a person as he 
has as a player. The long-haired blond with the rock'n'roll image 
has morphed into an introspective man still able to thrive in a sport 
long past the age when other talents have vanished. Along the way, 
he has picked up perspective, as well as seven major titles. He may 
have won more Grand Slams by now if not for moments when he has dropped 
tennis to deal with matters that were more important. ``I think you 
can always second-guess what you're doing and why you're doing it,'' 
Agassi said. ``But I've definitely come not to regret those times. 
I think they've played a big part in my ability to be healthy and 
to be determined now, and to feel that sense of hunger.'' Sunday, 
that hunger was visible in the intensity of his furrowed brow, the 
focus in his brown eyes and the attention to detail he displayed on 
the court. This is what a fresh start will do for a 30-year-old. ``Last 
year when I won here, it was the end of four Grand Slam finals in 
a row,'' Agassi said. ``It felt like the end of the year to me, but 
it was the beginning. I wasn't ready for the year mentally, physically 
or emotionally, any of it. But you have to keep yourself working and 
keep yourself in position. Now, this year, I've won, and I feel ready 
for the year.''