When Tom Bhakta, an Arkansas businessman, decided in the fall to seek 
a presidential pardon for his 1991 tax-evasion conviction, the odds 
seemed long. Thousands of other felons had been jockeying for executive 
clemency for as much as a year, with more applications arriving at 
the Justice Department each day. Their requests followed a routine: 
investigations by the FBI, review by the relevant prosecutors, and 
recommendation to the White House by a Justice Department office that 
works full time on pardons. Bhakta's plea for clemency traveled a 
different route. In the last hours of the Clinton administration, 
his was one of nearly two dozen rushed to the head of the line without 
the customary scrutiny. The process was so hurried that his name was 
misspelled on the official announcement and on the executive order 
that President Bill Clinton signed. Bhakta is hardly apolitical insider. 
He did have some connections, but it is not clear what role, if any, 
they played in the outcome. Records show that on a single day in October, 
just as he became interested in getting a pardon, he, his wife and 
his three college-age children contributed $1,000 each to the New 
York Senate campaign of Hillary Rodham Clinton. Bhakta's business 
partner and lawyer, Kenneth Mourton, had also represented the broker 
who in the late 1970s handled the commodities trades that brought 
Hillary Clinton nearly $100,000 in profits. An associate of Bhakta 
knew a senator who could be approached to help him obtain a pardon, 
Bhakta said on Friday in a brief interview. He did not identify the 
senator or the associate. In the days since Clinton issued 176 pardons 
and clemency orders, attention has focused on some of the most controversial 
recipients, particularly Marc Rich, a fugitive millionaire who fled 
the country after his indictment on charges of tax evasion, fraud 
and racketeering. But current and former government officials said 
that Rich's case is just one example of a wide-ranging diversion from 
a system whose established procedures were more closely adhered to 
by Clinton's predecessors. In many of these cases, government officials 
say, Justice Department lawyers and the FBI had no idea that pardons 
were being considered until late on the night before George W. Bush's 
inauguration, on Jan. 20. Federal agents, who had scrutinized the 
other names on the list, could conduct only the most cursory investigation 
of the late arrivals from the White House. Government officials said 
the Justice Department had no knowledge that the White House was compiling 
its own list. But many felons with Washington connections did. Beginning 
last fall, the notion began to circulate among potential applicants 
that the White House might be receptive to direct proposals for pardons, 
said current and former government officials, pardon applicants and 
lawyers. The result, these people said, was a mad search around the 
country for lawyers with contacts in the Clinton administration. Some 
of these lawyers were offering their services at a steep price. The 
spouse of one applicant said that a former congressman was willing 
to help her, if she agreed to pay as much as $500,000. Even those 
going through the traditional process were reaching out to people 
with influence. Those among the heavyweight lawyers who represented 
recipients of Clinton's clemency orders were Jack Quinn, a former 
White House counsel; William Kennedy III, a former White House aide 
who has returned to Hillary Clinton's former law firm; and Nicholas 
Katzenbach, who was attorney general under President Lyndon B. Johnson. 
Bill Clinton has defended Rich's pardon, saying it was granted on 
the merits of his case, but he has declined to discuss his other pardons. 
Hillary Clinton has said that the pardon decisions were strictly the 
president's. Her spokesman, Howard Wolfson, said that there was no 
connection between contributions to her Senate campaign and the decision 
to issue Bhakta's pardon. Overall, Bill Clinton's granting of pardons 
and commutations is comparable to that of his predecessors _ over 
two terms he awarded two more pardons than President Ronald Reagan 
did in his two terms. And other presidents, notably George Bush, handed 
out controversial pardons in the waning hours of their administrations. 
But several legal experts said the midnight rush by Clinton was deeply 
troubling. ``There is always a certain amount of slippage in this 
process,'' said Margaret Love, a former head of the Justice Department's 
pardon office who remains in contact with lawyers there. ``But here 
the slippage was massive.'' The results have been particularly disturbing 
for the applicants and their families whose hopes were dashed by their 
omissions from the list. After months of work _ following the rules, 
working through the complex process, and gaining respect for the professionalism 
of the government's pardon lawyers _ they now believe that they were 
unknowingly playing on an unlevel field, despite the fact that a president's 
power to pardon is virtually unrestricted and that the process is 
in place merely to streamline it. ``It's not fair,'' said Ginger Whitacre, 
whose husband, Mark, hoped to have his prison sentence for fraud and 
price-fixing commuted because of his cooperation with federal investigators. 
``It's supposed to be equal. And it comes down to whether you have 
money or not.'' Throughout much of Clinton's presidency, pardons did 
not seem high among his priorities. By the end of 1998, he had granted 
only 77 pardons and clemency requests out of nearly 4,000 submitted. 
But about that time, government officials said, the number of applications 
for clemency began to climb. The officials speculated that the increase 
was an unexpected side effect of the Monica Lewinsky scandal. As Clinton 
asked repeatedly for public forgiveness, the officials said, some 
people might have believed that he would be more likely to grant a 
little forgiveness of his own. Signs that Clinton might in fact be 
changing his use of the power emerged about a year later, when Clinton 
granted clemency to 16 imprisoned members of a Puerto Rican nationalist 
group known as the FALN, for Armed Forces of National Liberation. 
It was a decision that Republicans said was made to help Hillary Clinton's 
Senate bid. At the time, the White House denied that Hillary Clinton 
played any role in those pardons, and ultimately she publicly opposed 
them. Government officials say they believe that felons read the FALN 
decision as another signal that the president was unsheathing his 
clemency power. Applications to the pardon office climbed rapidly 
in the months that followed, with the total that fiscal year growing 
by 30 percent, to 1,300. Then last July the president commuted the 
sentences of four women imprisoned on drug charges in separate cases. 
Around the country, others sentenced for drug violations thought their 
prospects for release had brightened. The July commutations ``made 
us realize Clinton was likely to do more,'' said Julie Stewart, president 
of Families Against Mandatory Minimums. In the months that followed, 
clemency applications from people convicted of drug crimes and other 
felons poured into the Justice Department at a rapidly increasing 
rate. The lawyers in the Justice Department's pardon office began 
loading up on cases to review, ready for some staggering months of 
work. At the same time, applicants and their relatives were beginning 
to jockey for position. Garry Mauro, a longtime friend of the Clintons 
and the Texas chairman of the Gore presidential campaign, said he 
received more than 300 calls starting in November from Democrats asking 
for help on behalf of a relative or friend who wanted presidential 
clemency. He helped in only a few cases, by sending a letter of support, 
Mauro said. Martie Jobe decided to do everything she could to help 
her husband, Stanley, get a pardon for his 1994 bank-fraud conviction. 
Martie Jobe, a lawyer from El Paso, Texas, obtained the nine-page 
application form from the pardon office and answered all of its detailed 
questions. She sought letters from politicians, business people and 
other professionals to attest to her husband's character. She compiled 
hundreds of pages of supporting material in a notebook. But still, 
she wanted to push harder. She asked for help from a former Democratic 
congressman from Dallas with contacts in the administration. The former 
congressman was willing to join in the effort, Jobe said, for an upfront 
payment of $200,000 with a $300,000 bonus if he was successful. Despite 
her eagerness to clear her husband's name, Jobe balked. ``That was 
close to buying a pardon,'' she said. In an interview, the former 
congressman, John Bryant, now a lawyer and lobbyist, said that his 
fee, which he said might have been less than Jobe remembered, was 
to cover the extensive work that would be required. ``It's not like 
you get a check and walk over to the White House and say `How about 
it?''' Bryant said. ``The fee I quoted was for three different people 
working on the matter. It was not that I had a friend in high places 
to go to. You had to convince people at Justice and then get over 
to the White House to make sure it happened.'' In many cases, applicants 
have no legal representation. Lawyers who do represent pardon applicants 
said their standard fee ranged between $2,500 and $5,000 for eight 
to 20 hours of work. Jobe said she sought out another person with 
administration connections, who in turn made contact with a White 
House official. ``It was all kind of mysterious,'' she said. Her husband 
won his pardon this month. At the White House, the lobbying on behalf 
of felons stepped up. Rich, through his lawyer, Quinn, the former 
White House counsel, began pushing for a pardon, something that former 
pardon attorneys said was unprecedented, since he remained a fugitive. 
On Dec. 22, Bill and Hillary Clinton met in the Map Room at the White 
House with a group seeking clemency for four Hasidic men who were 
serving sentences for stealing $40 million from various government 
grant and loan programs. He eventually granted their request. At the 
same time, an assortment of other candidates for pardon were pressing 
their case at the White House, either directly or through a representative. 
They included Michael Milken, the former financier who was convicted 
of securities fraud, and Webster Hubbell, a longtime friend of the 
Clintons and a former Justice Department official who had engaged 
in financial fraud involving his former law firm and clients. Clinton 
ultimately declined to grant either man a pardon. A few blocks away, 
officials in the pardon office thought they were wrapping up their 
work, government officials said. Their recommendations had been completed, 
and sent on to the deputy attorney general for review and approval 
before they were passed to the White House counsel's office. On Jan. 
19, the last day of the Clinton presidency, an announcement of pardons 
was scheduled for five o'clock, government officials said. But five 
o'clock came and went. The announcement was rescheduled for nine, 
but that passed as well. In the pardon office, lawyers stayed waiting 
for word from the president's staff. Then, around midnight, it arrived: 
The White House had more names that it wanted on the list. As the 
hours passed, more and more new names came in, until they finally 
totaled close to two dozen people. And the pardon attorneys had never 
investigated any of them. FBI agents _ with no time to conduct the 
usual in-depth inquiries into pardon applicants _ instead just ran 
the names through bureau computers in search of other possible felony 
convictions. By 3 o'clock, lawyers from the deputy attorney general's 
office decided to head home, knowing that the pardon attorneys would 
be working through the night. By 5 a.m., an anxious lawyer awaiting 
word on his clients' fate phoned the pardon office. Roger Adams, the 
head of the office, answered the phone, sounding dazed, the caller 
said. ``Still waiting,'' he told the lawyer. As the hours closed in 
on the Bush inaugural, the pardon office staff were rapidly typing 
an information sheet for each clemency recipient, government officials 
said. Most of the sheets listed an array of details for each case: 
the statute violated, the sentence, the lawyers, and the names of 
character witnesses. But more than 20 of those information sheets 
mentioned nothing more than the pardoned felon's name. It was, a government 
official said, the only information that the pardon office had.