it may be days or even weeks before we can know the full extent of 
the loss of life in the earthquake in western india. at the moment, 
officials will only say the number will run into the tens of thousands. 
given the magnitude of the human and structural loss, as you might 
expect, the rescue operations are difficult and slow. conditions are 
also difficult for journalists trying to get their stories and pictures 
out, as you'll see in this report from nbc's ron allen in india. all 
day, a frantic effort to save a mother and her two sons, medics racing 
to the scene when rescuers hear one of the young boys groaning. basically, 
it's slim, but we always pray for a miracle. and that's exactly what 
we're all doing here. but hope is fading here in bhuj, a town of 150,000, 
the size of fort lauderdale, now utterly devastated. one in five, 
some 30,000, injured. perhaps thousands more killed. their neighborhood, 
old bhuj, stood for some 400 years until the quake. now, just about 
every building in sight destroyed. the residents count some 50 to 
60 dead right here. from the air, it looks like a bomb went off -- 
whole neighborhoods flattened, the hospital destroyed, doctors setting 
up a makeshift field clinic. now, four days after the quake, fear 
of a cholera or typhus outbreak, so the funeral pyres are manned round 
the clock, with volunteers, as thousands of bodies are cremated. the 
government says there may be 500,000 homeless. gas and water pipelines 
destroyed. many without water. in the nearby town of bhachau, a town 
of 25,000, only 5,000 of their residents can be found. piles of rubble 
mark the route where 400 students were on parade, celebrating the 
national holiday when the quake struck. a tidal wave of cement roared 
over the children. only 35 made it out alive. "suddenly, we don't 
know what happened. suddenly, the earth came apart. there was mayhem. 
we ran here, and a lot of my friends died." a mother stands vigil, 
holding a picture of her only son. "i am hoping that god will keep 
my son alive," she says, "but i just don know." today, india's prime 
minister admitted his country is not equipped to handle the disaster. 
the rescue effort slow off the mark with not enough equipment. dozens 
of foreign rescue teams, like this british unit in bhuj, are now on 
the scene, and late tonight, they finally lift 5-year-old parth from 
the rubble. his mother and brother did not survive. doctors tell the 
boy's father his will to live saved him. tonight, to the relief of 
his father and this devastated nation, a reminder there's still a 
chance. ron allen, nbc news, bhuj. american nancy retherford has been 
at ground zero ever since the quake hit. she's a worker with the red 
cross, and her job is to get rescue workers and equipment to as many 
places as possible. what it's like tonight, "in her own words." the 
devastation is just incredibly vast. when you see it on tv, the clips 
of it only show you from one edge of your screen to the other, but 
when you are actually here, everywhere you look as far as you can 
look there is devastation. closer to the epicenter some of the cities 
and villages have 90% to 95% total destruction, which doesn't leave 
much left to move on with, many of those people are actually moving 
out of the city to get away from the danger that any more of those 
building might fall. in the larger cities, most of the damage was 
caused by the high-rise apartment buildings that housed six or seven 
stories of families. they collapsed, and they killed and trapped hundreds 
of people. some of the structures that didn't crumble might have been 
laying sideways or crooked, and you can actually look up into some 
of these high-rises and see someone's bed or clothes or, you know, 
dresser hanging sideways. it's hardest for me to watch the people 
who, four days after this happened, are still holding out hope that 
their loved ones will be found alive. i think it's very difficult 
to see such a tremendous loss of life. nancy retherford of the red 
cross, "in her own words" tonight. and if you'd like to know how you 
can help, you can find a list of groups accepting contributions for 
earthquake victims at msnbc.com.