A federal judge ruled Monday that U.S. prosecutors could use statements 
given overseas by defendants in the 1998 bombings of U.S. Embassies 
in East Africa, even though the defendants were not given lawyers 
at the time and in some cases claimed they were threatened with violence 
during questioning. The judge, Leonard B. Sand of U.S. District Court 
in Manhattan, said that although ``classic Miranda doctrine'' calls 
for a defendant to be advised of the right to counsel and given a 
lawyer if he cannot afford one, that may not always be feasible where 
U.S. agents interrogate suspects on foreign soil. The ruling not only 
represented a victory for the government's efforts to prosecute the 
case, but could also have a major impact in the interrogations of 
terrorism suspects in the future. U.S. investigators, for example, 
are trying to track down about a dozen fugitives in terrorism cases 
who are believed to be hiding overseas, including Osama bin Laden, 
the Saudi exile who is charged in the East Africa attacks and is also 
suspected in the attack in Yemen on the USS Cole. In arguing to have 
their clients' statements tossed out as evidence, lawyers for Mohamed 
Rashed Daoud Al-'Owhali and Mohamed Saddiq Odeh, two of the defendants, 
said that in addition to not being offered lawyers or advised of their 
rights, their clients were threatened by U.S. agents during their 
questioning. They were told that if they did not talk, they would 
be left in the hands of the Kenyans, whom their clients feared would 
use violence on them, the lawyers said. But FBI agents have denied 
mistreating the suspects. In his ruling, Sand said that U.S. officials 
did not violate the due process rights of the defendants, and that 
he found the testimony of government agents ``entirely credible.'' 
Sand said that the decision by Al-'Owhali, a Saudi, to talk to his 
U.S. interrogators without a lawyer ``was a consequence of the strong 
desire he expressed to be tried in America so that he could confront 
directly his avowed enemy.'' Prosecutors say that in his statement 
to investigators, Al-'Owhali confessed to helping to carry out the 
embassy bombing in Nairobi, Kenya, on Aug. 7, 1998, which along with 
a nearly simultaneous blast in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, killed 224 
people and wounded thousands. The ruling by Sand was in part a reversal 
of an earlier decision in which he ruled, in secret, that Al-'Owhali's 
statements should be suppressed. He later withdrew that opinion after 
the government asked for a chance to present new evidence and legal 
arguments, including on the Miranda issue. In his ruling Monday, Sand 
made clear that he was satisfied, based on the new evidence, that 
the authorities had complied with Miranda rules and constitutional 
requirements of due process. Sand said that in Al-'Owhali's two-week-long 
interrogation in Nairobi, for example, U.S. prosecutors and FBI agents 
were not wrong to tell him that he could not have a lawyer because 
that was accurate _ Kenyan law does not provide for one in such cases. 
``Miranda,'' the judge said, ``which we find to be applicable as far 
as feasible to this interrogation, does not sanction or require the 
making of false statements to a suspect.'' Because the trial is so 
near _ the judge said he wanted to begin next Monday _ Sand said he 
was issuing the opinion orally, and would follow with a full opinion. 
So his announcement Monday came from the bench, without the citation 
of legal precedents or the disclosure of the vast amount of secret 
testimony and legal documents pertaining to the interrogations that 
have been filed with him. But legal experts who were interviewed after 
reading the transcript of the judge's ruling said it seemed significant. 
``It's very important,'' said H. Richard Uviller, professor of law 
at Columbia University, ``because it underscores what the Supreme 
Court has said on other occasions _ that the precise form of the Miranda 
warnings is not written in stone.'' Yale Kamisar, a University of 
Michigan law professor and a leading expert on confessions, said the 
judge appeared to say that when ``American agents do the best they 
can possibly do'' in overseas interrogations, which may include slightly 
modifying Miranda, depending on the country and the situation, ``that's 
sort of a rough compliance, a satisfactory compliance with Miranda 
under the circumstances.''