Meanwhile President Bush is criticizing, but says he will not try 
to overturn the decision by former President Clinton to grant a pardon 
to fugitive American financier Mark Rich. The controversial pardon 
of Mr. Rich who has Democratic Party connections, was among the more 
than one hundred granted by Mr. Clinton in the final hours before 
he left office. VOA's David Gallust reports from the White House. 
Mr. Rich is a billionaire financier who has lived in European exile 
for nearly twenty years rather than face trial in the United States 
for criminal tax evasion. His inclusion on the list of last minute 
pardons by the former President triggered a storm of criticism from 
conservative commentators and Republican Congressional leaders who 
say they will investigate the affair. Officials of the Bush White 
House had in recent days told reporters that they were looking into 
legal technicalities that might be used to overturn the decision on 
Mr. Rich. However, in a talk with reporters here President Bush said 
there would be no such attempt. Mr. Bush said he is personally opposed 
to what Mr. Clinton did but that he considers the presidential right 
to pardon to be inviolate and that he is looking to preserve his own 
executive powers and those of his successors. I am troubled by the 
decision the President made. I would not have made the decision. I 
would not have made that decision. But nevertheless he was the President, 
he had the right to do so, to make that decision and he did. And I 
am going to protect that privilege not only for me but for future 
Presidents as well. Mr. Rich's former wife had in recent years donated 
more than a million dollars to Democrats including former First Lady 
Hillary Rodham Clinton and her successful campaign for a US Senate 
seat. Republican Senator John McCain says that while Mr. Clinton may 
have had innocent motives for the pardon, the appearance of a possible 
connection with the political donations is outrageous and should give 
impetus to his drive for campaign finance reform. Other of Mr. Clinton's 
pardons announced less than two hours before he stepped down have 
drawn criticism, one was the pardon given to his brother Roger Clinton 
for a drug offence in the 1980's. Another was the one extended to 
Susan McDoogle, a figure in the White Water Real Estates scandal in 
which the Clintons were investigated for possible wrongdoing but never 
charged. Mr. Bush has said he intends to continue the practice of 
pardoning or commuting the prison sentences of persons deserving such 
treatment, but he says he has given no consideration to individual 
cases at this early point in his term. David Gallust, VOA News, the 
White House.