The discovery of a living 8-month-old baby _ covered in his dead mother's 
blood but cradled in her lap _ on Monday captured the heartbreak and 
the singular miracles of India's killer earthquake. The rescue was 
rare cause for hope following the earthquake, which killed at least 
6,200 people and as many as 20,000 _ or more. Damage was estimated 
at up to $5.5 billion. India's prime minister acknowledged Monday 
that his country was ill-prepared for disasters. In the case of the 
miracle baby, doctors said the warmth of his mother's body helped 
him survive three days in the ruins of a collapsed building in Bhuj's 
Kansara Market. ``We saw the baby in the mother's lap, we saw some 
movement from the baby,'' said R.K. Thakur, a Border Security Forces 
assistant commandant. ``I took the baby in my hand and I found it 
was alive.'' The boy, Murtza Ali, was rushed to a medical center, 
surviving relatives were found, and the child was conscious and smiling, 
Thakur said, adding: ``It was miraculous.'' There are few even partly 
happy endings in western India these days. Survivors complained Monday 
that confusion and a lack of equipment was hampering rescue efforts. 
Rescuers lacked cranes and bulldozers, and many units did not even 
have generators, making night work impossible without lights. Soldiers 
hunting for survivors began work at first light and stopped when the 
sun went down. The hope of finding many more survivors ``is dwindling 
hour by hour, but as long as there is hope, we won't give up,'' said 
Joachim Ahrens, who represents a Swiss rescue team in Bhuj. In the 
first estimate of damage, the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce 
and Industry Secretary General Amit Mitra said quake losses may be 
as high as $5.5 billion besides a daily production loss of $111 million. 
However, officials in Gujarat state, epicenter of Friday's magnitude 
7.9 quake, put the figure at $2.17 billion. A grim-faced Prime Minister 
Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who toured Gujarat on Monday, said he was forming 
a national disaster agency to ensure immediate response to emergencies. 
``The country is not ready to face such disasters,'' Vajpayee told 
reporters in Ahmedabad, Gujarat's economic hub. He also announced 
federal grants totaling $108 million for the state. The prime minister 
noted that when a cyclone killed 10,000 people in the eastern state 
of Orissa two years ago, his government had trouble responding. He 
said it was facing similar problems now. ``I'm here to express my 
solidarity with the Indian people,'' Vajpayee said. ``They are not 
alone in this.'' In New Delhi on Monday, Agriculture Minister Bhaskar 
Barua appealed to private aid groups for field hospitals, clothing, 
volunteers to put up tents and prepare and distribute food, and cranes 
and other equipment. As recently as Sunday, Barua said it was the 
policy of his government not to ask for foreign aid. But he said India 
was thankful for the foreign help it had been offered. International 
aid so far includes $5 million in emergency supplies from the United 
States and $12 million in aid from Britain. At the Lohna Samshran 
crematorium on Monday, every effort was made to follow Hindu tradition 
for sending the quake's victims into the next life with respect. ``All 
methodologies are followed,'' said Rasik Thakkar, who manages the 
Lohna Shamshran. ``Those without relations, we'll take their bodies, 
process them according to Sanskriti teachings, and take them to Allahbad 
Sangram,'' a temple on the Ganges River, considered holy by Hindus. 
Normally each body is placed on its own funeral pyre, but that has 
not been the case since Friday. More than 6,200 dead have been registered 
across western India, but officials in Bhuj believe between 15,000 
and 20,000 people may have died here alone. As many as 16 bodies were 
being placed on a single pyre and they were not being segregated by 
caste. By Monday, Thakkar and his workers had cremated 387 bodies 
and more were being brought in by truck and stretcher. Despite the 
enormity of the task, most Hindu traditions were followed. Tears running 
down their faces, relatives shared their grief along with the funeral 
pyres. ``We were very proud of our brother and his job,'' Damor Balawat 
Nuvajubhai said, after placing 24-year-old Damor Rajendrakumar Nuvajubhai, 
his body wrapped in a bed sheet, on a pyre. Rajendrakumar died while 
working as a nurse at the civilian hospital in Bhuj _ one of 36 nurses 
killed when the building collapsed. His brother Balawat took a large 
can of clarified butter, known in Hindi as ghee, and poured some onto 
the logs. He and his three other brothers then sat on a stack of wood, 
quietly weeping for an hour until three other bodies were placed on 
the 3-foot-high high stack of wood. Crematorium workers, wearing baseball 
caps and scarves over their mouths, placed more logs on top of the 
bodies and helped relatives of the victims start the fire and stoke 
it into a roaring blaze. The only sound came from the crackle of the 
fire and the engines of heavy trucks jamming the streets with relief 
supplies. The heat of the fire was so intense, no one could stand 
within 15 feet of the pyre. Normally the Lohna Shamshran uses two 
crematoria, but after the quake began building pyres all around the 
building, on 12 sites. Bhuj is located in a semi-desert with few trees, 
so officials have called for donations of wood. Outside the Lohna 
Shamshran, trucks unloaded tons of lumber donated from all over India. 
Elsewhere in India, fresh tremors panicked residents Monday, but there 
were no reports damage beyond minor cracks in buildings. A magnitude 
4.3 quake was centered just outside Bangalore, 850 miles southeast 
of Bhuj.