The majority leader of the Senate criticized Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, 
D-N.Y., on Monday for the gifts she and former President Clinton accepted 
last year, and he suggested that the Senate might consider extending 
its gift restrictions so that they take effect as soon as a new senator 
is elected. Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., also termed as ``outrageous'' 
Bill Clinton's pardon of Marc Rich, a fugitive commodities trader. 
In an appearance on MSNBC's ``Hardball with Chris Matthews,'' he said 
Congress should investigate the pardon to ``see what happened and 
what we can do.'' He said, ``This was clearly indefensible.'' President 
Bush said Monday that he did not plan to reverse any of the pardons 
the former president granted in his last hours in office. He said 
he did not agree with Clinton's decision on Rich, but also that he 
wanted to uphold the constitutional power of the president to grant 
pardons. ``I am troubled by the decision the president made,'' he 
told reporters during a photo session in the Oval Office. ``I would 
not have made that decision,'' he added. ``But nevertheless he was 
the president, he had the right to do so, to make that decision, and 
he did. And I'm going to protect that privilege not only for me but 
for future presidents as well.'' Clinton's flurry of last-minute pardons 
has sparked a storm on Capitol Hill, with Republicans once again speaking 
of new rounds of investigations, particularly into the pardon of Rich, 
who has lived for exile for 17 years in Switzerland. He was charged 
with mail fraud, racketeering, income tax evasion and trading oil 
with Iran during a U.S. trade embargo. Two of his companies pleaded 
guilty in the 1980s to making false statements in a scheme to circumvent 
profit controls and evade taxes. Rich's former wife, Denise, has contributed 
to Democrats, including Clinton. With Clinton no longer in the White 
House, congressional Democrats have conspicuously chosen not to defend 
him this time and a number of them have grumbled privately that they 
are tired of having to deal with such controversies. Sen. Tom Daschle, 
the minority leader from South Dakota, flatly criticized the pardon 
of Rich last week. And on Sunday, Rep. Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., would 
only say, ``It well could have been that I would have not, if I were 
in his position, made this pardon, but I don't know all the facts.'' 
Also controversial was the disclosure by the former president and 
first lady that they accepted more than $190,000 in gifts last year, 
including paintings, lamps, chairs, china, two carpets, flatware, 
a kitchen table and chairs, televisions, a videodisc player, two sofas, 
an easy chair, a chandelier and two coffee tables. Under Senate gift 
restrictions, Clinton could not have accepted such expensive gifts 
once she was sworn in unless she had a specific waiver from the Senate 
Ethics Committee. Sen. Clinton, at a New York news conference Monday, 
where she said it was her intention to vote against confirming John 
Ashcroft as attorney general, refused to discuss the gifts at any 
length, saying: ``We followed all the rules. I am not going to get 
into any more details. We complied with everything that presidents 
and their families are expected to comply with.'' She also suggested 
that on a yearly basis the Clintons had accepted gifts in the White 
House at the same level as former President Bush and his wife, Barbara. 
Clinton also refused to discuss the pardons her husband issued during 
his last few hours in the White House. ``You're going to have to ask 
the president's transition office for a comment,'' she said. ``I have 
no opinion. I had no opinion before. I had no opinion at the time. 
I have no opinion now.'' But others in Congress did discuss such issues. 
Lott called the Clintons' acceptance of gifts ``not a good decision'' 
and said the Senate might examine whether the gift restrictions should 
start when a senator is elected, as opposed to when the lawmaker is 
sworn in to office. Lott spoke under prodding from Matthews, the host 
of the MSNBC talk show, and quickly tried to soften his words about 
Clinton. ``I'm going to work with her,'' he said. ``I've got to get 
along with her. I don't want to start off beating up on her.'' Separately, 
Sen. John McCain, the Arizona Republican who was one of the authors 
of the gift restrictions, spoke out after a town hall meeting in Arkansas 
where he and Sen. Russell Feingold, D-Wis., were trying to build support 
for new legislation to ban large, unregulated contributions to the 
political parties. McCain called the gifts ``a violation of the spirit 
if not the letter of the gift ban.'' Of the Rich pardon, he said, 
``I do not question the motives, nor do I know the motives, for the 
president pardoning Marc Rich.'' But he added, ``I do know that there 
is a terrible appearance of impropriety when a million dollars in 
soft money is given by the ex-wife of a fugitive from justice.'' Feingold 
said, ``I was appalled by the connection between the pardon and the 
soft money.'' He added, ``It's very troubling when something as sacred 
as the presidential pardon can become a part of this soft money mess.'' 
Jack Quinn, a former White House counsel who is now an attorney for 
Rich, has argued that others who engaged in similar transactions were 
never charged with crimes. He said his discussion with President Clinton 
about the case was on the legal merits and did not stray into politics.