Just as Peru appeared set to restore credibility to its tattered democracy, 
the release of videos clandestinely taken by the country's fugitive 
former spymaster has shown just how corrupted its institutions were 
and cast a shadow of fear over upcoming general elections. Only a 
few of the 2,400 videos _ many apparently showing lawmakers and judges 
accepting bribes, favors or other incriminating acts _ taped by ex-spy 
chief Vladimiro Montesinos and his allies have come to light. But 
they reveal a sordid tale of Montesinos manipulating all levels of 
government, the judiciary and military with bribes, favors and, presumably, 
blackmail. Montesinos was former President Alberto Fujimori's top 
adviser and national security chief. He fled the country in October 
after a video showing him apparently bribing a congressman set off 
a scandal that eventually toppled Fujimori. Montesinos' current location 
is unknown. ``It's distorting the whole electoral process terribly,'' 
said economist Hernando de Soto, referring to April 8 general elections. 
``How can you have elections in a process where the friends of your 
candidates, the associates of your candidates or the candidates themselves 
might be involved.'' Many of Peru's powerful who had dealings with 
Montesinos are reported to be frantically maneuvering behind the scenes, 
offering top dollar, to retrieve incriminating tapes they appear in. 
The tapes are now under review in the courts. So far, the tapes, have 
led to criminal investigations of the former president of the National 
Election Board, three Supreme Court judges, a district mayor, and 
a congressman who was known as an anti-corruption crusader. At least 
one possibly incriminating video titled ``Montesinos with judicial 
magistrates'' has disappeared, said special state's attorney Jose 
Ugaz. On Monday, Ugaz asked the president of the Supreme Court to 
copy all of the videos and put them in the safe of the state-owned 
Banco de la Nacion bank to guarantee they don't disappear. Peru's 
Interim President Valentin Paniagua has urged Congress and the courts 
to take whatever steps necessary to finish reviewing the videos and 
make them public before the elections. His council of ministers has 
asked for a complete listing of all those seen meeting with Montesinos 
or his associates, and an accounting of who among them are suspected 
of illicit involvement with Montesinos. What Fujimori dismissed as 
wild conspiracy theories by his opponents a few years ago are now 
showing up in grainy black and white _ and the damage is crossing 
all political lines. Congressman Ernesto Gamarra, a member of a congressional 
commission investigating Montesinos and his alleged accomplices, was 
perhaps the most surprising to fall. Suspended from Congress and facing 
possible criminal charges, Gamarra insisted last week that he did 
not know the $4,000 campaign contribution he was seen taking in a 
video taped in 1998 was coming from a Montesinos crony. What he did 
not, or could not, explain was his apparent promise in the video to 
use his influence to steer investigative journalists away from an 
alleged arms dealing scheme. The man handing Gamarra the wad of cash 
was the brother of Victor Alberto Venero _ reputedly Montesinos' top 
financial front-man who was arrested by the FBI in Miami last week 
for extradition back to Peru. He is accused of selling substandard 
armaments and supplies to the Peruvian military, controlled by Montesinos, 
at ``wildly excessive prices,'' stealing $100 million in Peruvian 
public pension funds and pocketing kickbacks. The Gamarra video, played 
last week in Congress, has done untold damage to his party, the Independent 
Moralizing Front _ a political group whose symbol is a broom to ``sweep 
away'' corruption. Its leader, presidential candidate Fernando Olivera, 
has scrambled to distance himself from Gamarra. But it might be too 
late to entice the lost voters back. ``Imagine, the party I thought 
was the most moral has been infiltrated with people who are compromised 
by Montesinos,'' said Hugo Lazo, 25, a finance student who had planned 
to vote for Olivera. ``I don't know who I am going to vote for. Who 
can I trust?'' Ironically, it was Olivera's party that revealed a 
video in September of Montesinos apparently bribing an opposition 
lawmaker to support Fujimori. Montesinos faces charges in Peru ranging 
from money laundering and influence peddling to illegal arms dealing. 
Fujimori was first elected in 1990, and was re-elected by a landslide 
five years later by Peruvians grateful to him for curbing guerrilla 
violence and ending the financial chaos of the 1980s. His iron grip 
started to slip when he sought office again last year, despite a constitutional 
prohibition against a third consecutive five-year term. The videos 
indicate that Montesinos engineered the candidacy, which led to one 
of the dirtiest elections in modern Peruvian history, fraught with 
irregularities and fraud allegations.