Tents, blankets and medical equipment poured into India on Tuesday 
as hopes for pulling more survivors from the wreckage of a massive 
earthquake dwindled to near zero and rescuers turned their attention 
to treating the survivors. Officials have counted more than 6,400 
bodies so far and officials estimated the final death toll could rise 
to 20,000 or more. India's defense minister estimated 100,000 may 
have died, with twice as many injured. The Red Cross launched a massive 
relief operation Tuesday to towns devastated by the quake and appealed 
for $16 million in emergency aid. And in a rare gesture of cooperation 
between fierce rivals, a Pakistani plane landed near the quake's epicenter 
Tuesday with relief, including 200 tents and 2,500 blankets. Friday's 
magnitude-7.9 quake flattened two towns in India's western Gujarat 
state. Government officials have counted 6,444 dead and 16,557 injured 
but many bodies remain trapped in the ruins of collapsed buildings. 
In the highest estimate from an Indian official, Defense Minister 
George Fernandes said Tuesday that the death toll could go as high 
as 100,000, citing the high populations of the two main cities destroyed: 
Bhuj, with 150,000 inhabitants, and Anjar, with 80,000 people. ``This 
is my personal assessment,'' Fernandes told The Associated Press, 
acknowledging the difficulty of making accurate assessments. ``I have 
been to those areas and I have seen it myself.'' The Gujarat state 
government had a more conservative estimate. Home Minister Haren Pandya 
said the number of dead would probably be between 15,000 and 20,000. 
Damage was estimated at up to $5.5 billion. Six aftershocks ranging 
from magnitude 3.3 to 4.5 rocked the Bhuj area through the night until 
Tuesday morning, but there were no reports of new damage or casualties. 
Seven cargo planes were due to land in the stricken town of Bhuj throughout 
the day with water equipment and a 350-bed field hospital. Red Cross 
experts began to set up an operational center the size of several 
soccer fields on college grounds just outside Bhuj. ``The needs on 
the ground are overwhelming the capacity to respond to them,'' said 
Denis McClean, spokesman for the International Federation of Red Cross 
and Red Crescent Societies. The $16 million would be enough to meet 
the basic needs of 300,000 people for four months, the Red Cross said. 
Rescue workers kept up the grim task of digging into the stony debris 
of ruined buildings in what they said was an increasingly futile search 
for survivors. But not without success: 16-year-old Ketan Rathod was 
pulled from the wreckage alive in Anjar, where he was caught under 
six feet of concrete with his dead grandmother for 96 hours. ``I was 
shouting for help or sleeping for most of the time,'' said Ketan, 
who could only move a few inches while caught between two pillars 
at his house. ``I was also crying for my grandmother and worried about 
my parents.'' He was found only after the army brought in a crane 
to start removing heavy slabs of concrete. A soldier heard his cries 
for help and he was removed from the rubble about 10 a.m. ``When I 
heard the people digging for me, I started crying,'' Ketan said. He 
was dehydrated, but otherwise suffered no serious injuries. His family 
had given up hope until the soldiers started shouting that someone 
was alive. ``I thought they were all dead,'' said Ketan's mother, 
Naina Narbheram, who was at a friend's house when the earthquake hit. 
While the search for survivors continued, workers in Anjar were also 
beginning to use heavy equipment to clear the debris _ a sign that 
they no longer fear injuring anyone still trapped alive in the ruins. 
An American plane loaded with water purification equipment, blankets 
and other aid landed in New Delhi on Tuesday. The goods will be ferried 
to Gujarat on Indian air force planes, U.S. Embassy spokesman Gordon 
Duguid said. The United States had pledged $5 million in emergency 
help. India's chief regional rival, Pakistan, joined the list of countries 
offering help to victims Tuesday. The C-130 transport plane arrived 
in Ahmedabad, the commercial capital of Gujarat state, with about 
13 tons of relief goods. ``The havoc wrought by the terrible earthquake 
... is a great tragedy,'' Foreign Minister Abdul Sattar told state-run 
Pakistan television. ``Pakistan wishes to repeat our sense of sadness 
and grief at the terrible tragedy.'' The Pakistani Foreign Ministry 
said a second relief plane would be sent Wednesday and a third on 
Thursday. Pakistan offered help to India soon after the earthquake 
but said Monday that India had turned down the offer. India denied 
this, saying New Delhi was willing to accept aid from any country. 
The two countries have fought three wars since the creation of Pakistan 
in 1947 after the partition of British colonial India.