in india today, the defense minister said as many as 100,000 people 
may have died in friday's earthquake. there's no way of confirming 
this yet. but more than 6,000 bodies have been recovered so far. thousands 
are still buried. and time is forcing rescue workers to make agonizing 
choices. abc's richard gizbert is in india tonight. it has been more 
than 100 hours since this ground first shook here. and rescuers say 
soon it will be time to call off the searches, time to weigh the shrinking 
chance of saving lives against the growing risk of disease from thousands 
of decaying bodies. it is a difficult decision for anyone to take. 
the reality is that we are not finding much evidence of people alive. 
and most of the people here just want confirmation that their loved 
ones are not with them. that's what they thought at this site. they 
were about to bring in the bulldozers today when someone heard something. 
a family of three made it out, they had survived in the dark on a 
single bottle of water and a few tomatoes. the children always ask 
for water. "mommy, water, please." throughout what is left of this 
city, all kinds of people, those who live here and those who have 
come to help, find themselves facing critical decisions. and they're 
having to make them very quickly. it's not just an agonizing family 
choice, to leave a lifelong family home. it can also involve conflicts 
between doctors. every minute he can die. every minute. this russian 
telling indian medics that to save this young man trapped in the rubble, 
they must amputate the leg that's pinned underneath. initially, the 
indians refuse. eventually, they relent. he was recovering in a hospital 
today, so sedated he doesn't know that his leg is gone. but he is 
alive. one of the teams said today it will continue its rescue efforts 
for another 24 hours, before making its decision on whether to save 
a few more lives in an earthquake that has already claimed so many. 
richard gizbert, abc news, bhuj, india.