and in india tonight, an american cargo plane with tons of water, 
blankets and other aid has arrived, as the search for survivors of 
that devastating earthquake grows even more grim. nbc's ron allen 
on the ground in the quake zone tonight. an incredible moment today 
in the quake-ravaged hometown of india's spiritual leader, mahatma 
gandhi, a family of three saved. 100 hours after disaster first strikes, 
rescuers find them trapped in their kitchen. the mother struggled 
to keep her family alive with food and water she could reach in the 
rubble. "we had one bottle of water, five or six tomatoes," she says. 
"my daughter was always asking for water." but now, rescuers in dangerous 
conditions finding fewer and fewer survivors. only a handful pulled 
out today. india's defense chief predicting a death toll of 100,000, 
damage at $5.5 billion. across this once prosperous state, tens of 
thousands of buildings leveled. anger and frustration growing among 
the desperate and hungry. reports of some attacking relief trucks. 
"we need food, clothing, shemter whether we're rich or poor," he says, 
"everyone, we need it." from around the world today, supplies of blankets, 
tents and medicine starting to pour in, even from india's arch rival, 
pakistan. more food and water is now reaching big population centers, 
easing severe shortages. but the indian government admits it wasn't 
prepared for such a crisis of this magnitude. in fact, this relief 
operation is being run by volunteers, charities. this the town of 
bhuj, the main hospital collapsed so doctors performed surgery under 
tents. most victims have crushed limbs, infection spreading. so doctors 
amputate this 75-year-old woman's hand. to save the patient, we had 
to do this operation. there was no choice? no choice. doctors fear 
this young child may loose part of a foot trapped under the rubble. 
now, in some villages, the dead outnumber the living. the constantly 
burning funeral pyres, scented with sandlewood and sesame. the ashes 
will be poured into the holy ganges river. and more aftershocks, some 
as high as 4.3. now, some devastated areas, deserted. tonight, prayers 
of remembrance for the victims in the country's capital, mourning 
losses still impossible to comprehend. ron allen, nbc news, bhuj, 
india. it's almost impossible to imagine what it must have been like 
to be there during the quake. tonight, two americans who lived through 
it are telling their story. libby baird and stacey sprague, members 
from a church group from dallas, were in a small hotel near the devastated 
city of bhuj when the quake hit. what it was like, "in their own words." 
it was about 8:45. i was laying there and all of a sudden, i just 
felt like a little -- like a kind of a quiver. i was actually getting 
dressed, about to go outside and eat breakfast. and i sat up and then 
i just got really -- our room just kinda went back and forth, and 
staci and i, we had two separate twin beds, and we kind of just grabbed 
hold of each other sitting on our beds, and we just prayed. the whole 
room is just rumbling around you. you feel the levels. our hotel collapsed. 
the whole first floor collapsed. you could feel just being bumped 
down from level to level. i remember very vividly seeing the walls 
of our room just kind of crack, just kind of watched them with the 
lines being made. things kind of just slowly falling. i was in my 
pajamas. i just started banging because our door was stuck. we couldn't 
get out from the pressure and the shifting of the building. kind of 
handed everyone out the level and we kralled over all of these open 
wired. i didn't even realize it was an earthquake until we were really 
outside and i started looking around and realized other buildings 
were also demolished. these people are people just like you and i, 
and they are in such need there. definitely a part of my heart stays 
in that area. libby baird and stacey sprague, safely back home tonight, 
"in their own words." about what it was like to go through that indian 
earthquake. and if you'd like to know how you can help, you can find 
a list of groups accepting contributions for earthquake victims at 
msnbc.com.