President Bush expressed his condolences to India's prime minister 
Tuesday for the earthquake that killed thousands of the country's 
citizens. ``I assured him that our nation was deeply concerned for 
the citizenry that had lost their lives. It was not the appropriate 
time to discuss policy beyond that,'' Bush said at a picture-taking 
session with Republican congressional leaders after the telephone 
call to Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. ``A lot of the conversation 
today was about the aid that our country is sending,'' Bush said, 
noting that two planes from the Agency for International Development 
and ``some military planes'' were take part in the relief effort. 
USAID said the first plane, which left Washington Tuesday, carried 
blankets, generators, water containers and other relief supplies. 
A second flight, Wednesday from a base in Italy, will carry water 
purification kits, plastic sheeting and collapsible water tanks. The 
relief agency has pledged $5 million and ``is working in close contact 
with the government of India to determine what needs are most critical,'' 
the agency said in a statement. It said the United States already 
has given $100,000 to India's national relief fund, and Catholic Relief 
Services is distributing enough U.S. government-supplied food to give 
a daily ration to 100,000 people. Bush's conversation with Vajpayee 
was part of a series of introductory calls the new president is making 
to world leaders. ``Good diplomacy really depends upon good personal 
relations, whether or not we agree with each other on a lot of issues 
or not,'' Bush said. ``And I'm going to continue a diplomacy that 
reaches out to people on a regular basis.'' Officials have counted 
more than 6,400 bodies in the aftermath of the quake and some estimate 
the final death toll could rise to 20,000 or more. India's defense 
minister estimated 100,000 may have died, with twice as many injured. 
The United States has provided India almost $1 million in emergency 
supplies and is prepared to send as much as $5 million worth. An eight-member 
American disaster response team was sent to India on Monday. The U.S. 
Agency for International Development, which is distributing the money, 
said the United States was sending supplies that include plastic sheeting, 
blankets, water containers, purification and distribution kits and 
generators.