Nick Spence and his British rescue team fought for 12 hours to free 
a 10-year-old boy trapped under the ruins of his home by an earthquake 
that killed his mother and brother. At one point, it seemed the only 
hope was to saw off the boy's left leg, which was caught under debris. 
But the rescuers managed to free Parth Pradeep Joshi. Although Joshi's 
leg may still have to be amputated, he is alive. ``You live for those 
five seconds, when you pull someone out alive,'' said Spence, a 31-year-old 
paramedic working with the volunteer group RAPID U.K. ``You work in 
a confined space with your teammates, rolling in body fluids and decaying 
corpses, with bits of the building crashing down around you _ but 
then you have a moment like that.'' A small army of local and international 
rescue and relief workers is producing the occasional miracle for 
the beleaguered residents of Bhuj, near the epicenter of a 7.9 magnitude 
earthquake that struck Friday, killing thousands. But such moments 
are rare. British and Turkish rescuers had pulled five people alive 
from the ruined city by Tuesday _ and located more than 600 bodies. 
``There can be voids in the rubble where people can survive for a 
few days, if they have water,'' said Mike Thomas, team leader for 
the 67-member British search and rescue efforts. ``But we're not seeing 
much sign of life.'' Spence and his 12-strong group are all volunteers 
_ including a fisherman, a shopkeeper and a college student _ who 
have completed a rigorous two-year training course. They work with 
saws, cutting tools, their bare hands, and even with wooden poles 
salvaged from the almost impassable maze of rubble that was Bhuj's 
historic old city. With other international groups and local charities, 
they are bringing survival and sustenance to this city. It is a piecemeal 
process, hampered by language barriers and lack of coordination in 
the first chaotic days after the quake. An American plane loaded with 
water purification equipment, blankets and other aid landed in New 
Delhi on Tuesday. The goods will be ferried to Gujarat on Indian air 
force planes, U.S. Embassy spokesman Gordon Duguid said. The United 
States had pledged $5 million in emergency help. India's chief regional 
rival, Pakistan, joined the list of countries offering help to victims 
Tuesday. The C-130 transport plane arrived in Ahmedabad, the commercial 
capital of Gujarat state, with about 13 tons of relief goods. At times, 
relief work is agonizingly slow. Arriving at one ruined house _ whose 
upper stories list like a sinking ship above the crushed ground floor 
_ the Britons and a Turkish team equipped with a sniffer dog receive 
a multilingual briefing with the aid of translators. Then Barney, 
a nine-year-old cocker spaniel who has worked in disaster zones from 
Turkey to Taiwan, Mozambique and El Salvador, is sent in to search 
for survivors. This time, there is no good news, and the group picks 
its way over the chunks of concrete and the dead bodies to the next 
house, the next family waiting with fading hope. Emergency workers 
say rescue efforts such as these, as well as aid for survivors, have 
yet to reach many parts of the earthquake-ravaged area. ``Even within 
the town there are pockets that haven't got any relief,'' said Usha 
Nath of Kutch Navnirman Abhiyan, an Indian volunteer group that is 
trying to coordinate the distribution of emergency aid. ``And outside 
Bhuj, the relief is only going to areas on the main road.''