Ever so faintly, people heard a voice deep within a 40-foot mountain 
of rubble that had been a modern seven-story apartment building until 
Friday's ferocious earthquake. At the same time, two rescue workers 
from Britain who were out looking for a place to buy cigarettes got 
tired of the thunderous traffic jam of relief vehicles and turned 
down a side street toward what remained of the pink and cream apartment 
building. A man in a car pulled up to the guys in the bright blue 
jump suits and said: ``We can hear a voice. Come.'' That chance encounter, 
on Tuesday afternoon, set off one of the remarkable rescue missions 
that have saved the lives of a few lucky earthquake victims. Officials 
in the western state of Gujarat predicted Wednesday that the death 
toll would rise to 25,000 as those buried in rubble were dug out across 
the arid region. But on Tuesday, more than 100 hours after the quake 
struck, one of the interred spoke. Viral Dalal, a 24-year-old student 
at Fairleigh Dickinson University in N.J., who was studying for a 
master's degree in computer science, was home in Bhuj for a family 
visit. For a few hours that afternoon, his life intersected with the 
lives of John Anderson, a fork lift driver from Scotland, and Dave 
Maddock, a maintenance engineer from the Manchester area. They and 
other members of the international rescue corps were flown to India 
by the British government. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) ``The adrenaline 
was flowing so fast you could walk up the wall,'' Anderson said of 
the experience. In his 13 years in the corps, Anderson had only once 
saved someone caught in the ruins of an earthquake. Maddock, who signed 
up after reading a Reader's Digest article about the group in the 
1980s, said he had never pulled anyone out of earthquake rubble alive 
on his missions to Armenia (1988); Kobe, Japan (1995); and Turkey 
(1999). (END OPTIONAL TRIM) When the man approached them about the 
voice emanating from the collapsed apartment, they ran to the spot 
where Dalal's cousin shouted to him in Gujarati. And Dalal shouted 
back. ``We came over and checked, and we did hear a voice,'' Anderson 
said. ``But we didn't know what it was saying because it was speaking 
in Indian.'' The Britons then jumped into a car and careered back 
to the team's camp site, a collection of red, orange, purple and blue 
tents filled with rescue workers from Japan, France, Turkey and Britain. 
They gathered up the required equipment and five more men and rushed 
back. Dalal was trapped in a small space with tons of rubble on top 
of him. The earthquake had brought the building crashing down with 
extraordinary force, but enough of the walls of Dalal's room survived 
to leave him about a foot of breathing space. He was lying on his 
back in bed with his hands behind his head. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) 
Each time an aftershock made the earth tremble, the building settled 
a little more, ``like when you're baking a cake and give the flour 
in a sieve a wee bump, that's what happens in the rubble,'' Anderson 
said. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) A videotape of the rescue, made by a member 
of the team, shows the men in miner's helmets with headlights tunneling 
into the rubble from the side, chipping away at the concrete that 
tinkled down the side of the mountain, and cutting through iron rods 
with a gas-powered flame cutter. ``If I knock can you tell me if I'm 
above you or in front of you?'' Paul Wooster, the team leader, asked. 
Dalal told them they were directly above him and that he could see 
them through a chink of light in the concrete floor. ``Viral, we're 
going to do some hammering,'' Wooster warned him. ``If things start 
to move or fall on you, you yell out and tell me.'' ``OK,'' Dalal 
replied in a tiny voice. ``What are your injuries?'' Wooster asked. 
Dalal said, ``I don't have any.'' The team members cut a square hole 
in the floor. Mark North Wilson was the first to touch Dalal's feet, 
and he reached in and shook the student's hand. As the men pulled 
Dalal through the hole they had cut, his toes appeared first, then 
his body _ he was wearing shorts and an olive-green polo shirt _ and 
finally his head. The audience watching the rescue burst into applause, 
and the team members, sweaty and dusty, hugged each other and patted 
Dalal's leg. Dalal had not a scratch on him. ``I just want you to 
lie there,'' Maddock told him. ``It's all rubble out here. We're going 
to take you straight to the ambulance. OK? But Dalal had other ideas. 
His parents, his brother, his sister-in-law and his young nephew were 
still somewhere in the pile. And he was determined that no one was 
going to take him away until his family was out, too. (BEGIN OPTIONAL 
TRIM) ``Actually, let me explain one second,'' Dalal said to them 
insistently. ``I'm perfectly fine. I just need a little bit of water 
and maybe food. I just want to be here. That's it. That's it. I don't 
need any ambulance. I'm perfectly fine, thank you very much.'' The 
team insisted on taking Dalal to the hospital for a checkup, but within 
an hour he was back. ``I just want to be here because my mother and 
father might be here,'' he explained. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Wednesday 
morning, Dalal, haggard and grave, was back at the scene, wearing 
a kerchief tied around his head, blue jeans and a short-sleeved shirt. 
A white surgical mask covered his face to shut out the whiff of death 
from the rotting bodies in the heat. He watched with intensity as 
soldiers gently, slowly moved pieces of rubble. It was a windy day 
and puffs of dust rolled around them. Anderson and Maddock, faces 
unshaven, their jump suits dusty and torn, sat silently next to him 
watching. Maddock absently petted a stray white cat as he watched 
the scene. ``My mother's in there,'' Dalal said. ``My whole family 
is in there.'' A little before 3 Wednesday afternoon, the machine 
operator turned off the bulldozer that had been clawing at the rubble 
with its giant metal hand. And the assembled crowd fell silent. Dalal 
himself went up onto the pile. The soldiers, wearing black cloth around 
their faces, had found his brother's body. They put on gloves to carry 
Roshan Dalal, a cell phone company sales executive, away. Viral Dalal, 
miraculously saved, will now in all likelihood have to withstand being 
the only member of his family left behind in life. ``I've just come 
back from the cemetery,'' he said later Wednesday afternoon. ``My 
brother _ I just burned him.''