Deputy Commandant Anjay Rampal was in the shower when India's worst 
earthquake in 50 years struck near his base in western India. ``Dressed 
only in a towel, I grabbed my boy and rushed outside,'' Rampal recalled. 
``I kept waiting until the tremors finally stopped.'' Rampal's family 
was safe, and though his home on the Bhuj Border Security Force base 
was badly damaged, it was still standing. But other buildings had 
been destroyed, and Rampal feared conditions would be worse in town. 
So he called his men and ordered them to pack hammers, crowbars and 
any other tools. He didn't wait for orders, and his action saved 84 
lives. ``We decided to leave immediately for rescue work because that 
was the time when we could expect to rescue people,'' said Rampal, 
commander of the base workshop. According to quake survivors, such 
prompt action was rare among police and local authorities, where few 
took the initiative without orders. Many people complained that hours 
or days passed before they got government help. Newspapers reported 
that in some instances officials were so tied up with a visit to the 
region by Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee that they had no time 
to assist foreign rescue teams. A Vajpayee spokesman denied the reports. 
After the earthquake on Friday morning, Rampal's convoy of trucks 
took off immediately from the base for the short drive into Bhuj. 
There, they found most of the city of 150,000 had been destroyed. 
People were running, crying and screaming in the streets, covered 
with dust and blood. ``They saw that I was in charge and started pulling 
on me, pulling on my clothes trying to get me to help them,'' Rampal 
said. ``It was total chaos.'' Rampal and his men worked in Bhuj's 
narrow-laned old city until 7:30 p.m., when it became too dark to 
work. They returned to base to get lights and were ordered to a girl's 
dormitory. ``We pulled 18 girls from the rubble there. By the time 
we finished at midnight, we had rescued 84 people and pulled out 43 
dead bodies,'' Rampal said. Within hours of the quake, his men reached 
four towns in the region. Though they had no search and rescue equipment, 
they were the only outside help until reinforcements arrived two days 
later. Inspector Gen. Bakhshish Singh, commander of the Border Security 
Force in the western states of Rajasthan and Gujarat, said he was 
proud of his officers. ``Even though their own homes were destroyed, 
the soldiers went out to save others,'' Singh said. ``They served 
the people first, the way they should.''