Rescuers pulled survivors from the wreckage of India's earthquake 
just before bulldozers began to arrive Wednesday as the government 
of Gujarat state said 12,000 bodies had been recovered and the death 
toll was likely to reach 25,000. The estimate is based on the number 
of bodies recovered, those reported missing, the estimated number 
still lying under debris and reports gathered by government agencies, 
said Haren Pandya, home minister of Gujarat. ``The figure I am giving 
you today is the closest to the truth,'' Pandya said, announcing the 
higher numbers an hour after the state's emergency control room had 
said 7,162 bodies had been found. Indian Defense Minister George Fernandes 
on Wednesday maintained that over 100,000 had died, but Pandya said 
the state assessment was much lower. The increased numbers came as 
several rescue teams found people alive in the rubble of buildings 
just as bulldozers began smashing walls and experts laid explosives 
to clear away the rubble. A Russian rescue team in the town of Bhachau 
heard a woman screaming after a bulldozer smashed the wall of her 
three-story apartment building. The Russians found the woman's hand 
under a flattened concrete slab and held onto it until they pulled 
Kuntal Thakkar, 22, free. Then they freed her husband. In Bhuj, closest 
to the epicenter of the 7.9 earthquake, an army team rescued a 12-year-old 
girl named Prianka and rushed her to the hospital. A demolition team 
hammering its way through a destroyed apartment block in Ahmedabad 
discovered Joytosna Gandhi still alive more than five days after the 
earthquake tore through the western Indian state. Gandhi was discovered 
next to the body of her teen-age son just as workers had all but given 
up hope of finding survivors and were beginning to knock down damaged 
buildings and clear away the wreckage. The condition of the 55-year-old 
woman testified to the slim chances of surviving for five days under 
a collapsed building. Both her legs and one hand had been crushed 
by concrete beams and had to be amputated, doctors said. She was in 
critical condition with kidney trouble. ``I don't know how she stayed 
alive with her dead son next to her,'' said Promila Ranadive, a neighbor. 
As the quake effort switched from rescue to relief, India faced expanding 
needs for food, clothing and shelter for survivors. The United Nations 
estimated there are 200,000 homeless in the western state of Gujarat 
where the quake did most of its damage. Countries and groups poured 
in aid as foreign rescue teams made their last rounds with trained 
dogs and seismographs before heading home. A U.N. World Food Program 
flight with 41 tons of cargo, including health kits and generators, 
left for India on Tuesday. Another flight was to leave on Thursday. 
Pakistan, with whom India has fought three wars, sent its second military 
plane in two days to Ahmedabad, loaded with tents and blankets. In 
Bhuj, volunteers from Germany, Finland, Belgium, India and the United 
States were working on a huge Red Cross field hospital with 310 beds 
and the capacity to treat up to 2,000 walk-in patients a day. Aftershocks 
jolted the quake zone early Wednesday, raising fears that more buildings 
could topple. India's Meteorological Department reported the strongest 
of the aftershocks at preliminary magnitude of 4.5. There were no 
reports of new injuries or damage. Special trains for people fleeing 
the region were scheduled to depart Ahmedabad on Wednesday afternoon. 
Among the luckiest survivors were the 800 people in a tent city in 
an open-air theater in Bhuj. With food from aid groups, neighbors 
have organized kitchens to feed tent-dwellers and thousands of others 
still living in the streets. Conditions, however, were grim. People 
were crowded under tents with sheets spread over the bare earth. Though 
food and drink were available, no sanitation system had been set up. 
Bharpi Thakkar, 42, huddled with her parents, three children, and 
four other families under a tent. ``We haven't had a chance to think 
about the future,'' she said, sipping tea. ``The challenge now is 
to deal with the present.'' Despite the dramatic rescues, hope of 
finding more survivors largely dried up Wednesday. Demolition crews 
using dynamite began clearing away the shells of damaged buildings 
and homes. In Ahmedabad, engineers wearing motorcycle helmets for 
protection broke up slabs of concrete with sledgehammers and crowbars. 
Clouds of dust rose into the air as bulldozers moved into the ruins. 
``In most places we've used a small quantity of plastic explosives 
to pull down the more dangerously balanced parts,'' said Col. Rajat 
Raftogi, of the army engineering corps. ``It's a delicate operation 
which needs very careful handling.'' Trucks moved into town carrying 
large cranes and bulldozers. Wood was piled high along the sides of 
the roads in anticipation of further funeral pyres. At the Bhuj airport, 
workers put bodies into coffins on the runway, presumably for transport 
to other parts of India. The focus moved firmly Wednesday to the needs 
of survivors. Kenzo Oshima, U.N. undersecretary-general for humanitarian 
affairs, said Tuesday in New York that about 200,000 people were homeless. 
A U.N. disaster assessment team is working with the Indian government 
to coordinate international assistance teams, he said. Total damage 
from the quake has been estimated at up to $5.5 billion.