in india tonight, several more aftershocks in the quake zone. search 
and rescue is just about over. and now there is an urgent need for 
more people to distribute relief supplies. nbc's ron allen tonight 
on the desperation in a tiny town that's been all but wiped out. today, 
the desperate return to a place called ratnal, once a close-knit community 
of 5,000, flattened as far as the eye can see. the temple, its heart 
and soul, now stands all alone. 250 killed here. no rescue crews came 
to save anyone, and six days later, still little relief. to fully 
understand the devastation here, imagine a village of about a square 
mile in size, block after block of homes, most about two stories tall, 
a grocery store, a clinic, a school for boys and one for girls, now 
all gone. "my brother's family and my parents died just down the road," 
he says. his loss staggering. now, the struggle to take care of his 
family, a tailor, he digs into his bedroom hoping to find his sewing 
machine, while his wife hunts for clothes. he finds a few old photos, 
tattered. "i'm looking for jewelry, the money we saved," she says, 
5,000 rupees or about $100 -- half a year's earnings. now, they join 
perhaps more than a million homeless camping by the side of the road 
or wandering in search of shelter. health workers fears growing about 
sanitation problems, lack of clean water. some of the most desperate 
at this dusty garbage dump picking through fresh piles of earthquake 
rubble hoping for anything that might help them endure. "the wood 
can help me build a house," he says, "or i can sell it for food." 
today, relief pouring in from around the globe. so much, it overwhelms 
workers on the ground. there is not enough help to distribute it. 
now, demolition teams moving in, but at this building yet another 
amazing find. a 55-year-old woman still alive, doctors amputate both 
her legs and a hand to free her, and again tonight, the funeral pyres 
still burning not far from the campfires where they hope help finds 
them. ron allen, nbc news, bhuj, india.