While the International relief effort and some miraculous recoveries 
continue in earthquake ravaged western India, some are beginning to 
question just how so much structural destruction was possible. Much 
of the most devastated area near the epicenter of Friday's killer 
quake included lower level buildings, according to some could have 
been more carefully constructed. But the huge building boom in a region 
during the early 1990's apparently made close quality control difficult. 
Vikram Prakash is a Professor of Architecture at the University of 
Washington in Seattle. He visited the region last year on a teaching 
tour. He became familiar with the local construction. Professor Prakash 
tells us about one of the main faults in local construction. A lot 
of these buildings were made very quickly with serious stresses on 
time and . We were looking at some of the unfinished buildings and 
it seemed about the construction was, at least for our you know US 
trained eyes, significantly sub-standard. Most of that would relate 
to how the steel in the building inside the concrete is joined together. 
And mostly I felt that's fine but I would suspect that most of the 
collapses, absolute catastrophic collapses in the buildings that have 
taken place are mostly due to the manner in which the steel has been 
joined together with other parts of the building. That leads me to 
ask about why were there not stricter building codes enforced at the 
time if communities like Ahmedabad were known to be in an earthquake 
risk area? Well, what happens is that the building codes are pretty 
stringent and they are very clear about the earthquake codes. But 
particularly in a situation where there is a lot of rapid building 
most of the actual construction is done by large waves of immigrant 
labor that come in to simply do the work. It's all very rudimentary, 
simple, hand-carried concrete, poor construction. So in those circumstances, 
you know, it's the private developers who are really responsible to 
make sure that all the steel is properly poured, it's properly laid 
out and properly jointed together. And you know I'm not saying that 
they didn't properly supervise but what I'm also saying is that there 
is no natural expertise built into the workforce so that some of the 
careful attention that needs to be paid to the process of jointing 
the steel probably was just not present in the everyday technology 
of the people who are doing the work. As incredibly sad as this disaster 
is for the future of communities like Ahmedabad, what lesson is it 
giving for its future as there are enormous attempts to rebuild the 
community? What is going to actually happen in terms of the enforcement 
of the building codes is if one can hope that it will be better. But 
possibly some other things that might be put into place more easily 
might be if we talk about the destruction that's taken place in the 
more, you know, smaller constructions closer to the epicenter. Just 
simpler techniques of binding wall, brick-wall construction like making 
sure the brick is, you know, overlapped. I think these are sort of 
simple technologies that one can hope to disseminate amongst the people 
who are going to essentially rebuild their own houses and hope that 
the technology... and hope that just the awareness level is transformed 
a little bit so that they can do a better job. I mean the builders, 
you know, are probably, hopefully, you know, there's some kind of 
legal reinforcement for them in the city. But I think a lot of the 
NGO activists in the rural areas, where most of the reconstruction 
is probably going to happen with the people doing the work themselves, 
are trying to and hopefully will be successful in disseminating some 
simple techniques that can significantly improve their ability to, 
well not stand up in a 7.9 earthquake, but to sort of prevent catastrophic 
damage. Vikram Prakash is a Professor of Architecture at the University 
of Washington in Seattle.