As the death toll from last week's devastating earthquake in India 
continues to rise volunteers and supplies from around the world are 
pouring into the shattered Indian State of Gujarat. Here in the United 
States Indian Americans are also working to provide help to their 
countrymen and women, while grieving the tremendous losses in their 
homeland. Joshua Livs reports on the relief efforts in and around 
the southeast city of Atlanta. At a Hindu temple in Clarkston, Georgia, 
people gather for the evening prayer. Devoted Hindus attend the prayer 
session every evening but this week there's an additional prayer for 
those afflicted by the earthquake. People who have lost close family 
in the disaster stay home and mourn for eleven days. Those here are 
praying for them and for the victims. It's not expressible, very heart 
breaking! Rajesh Patel is from Gujarat, the state worst hit by the 
quake. Large parts of it are nearly gone, as are some people he knew. 
We will pray to our God that nothing of this kind happens in any part 
of the world. This temple is part of the Swami Narayan Sect, several 
thousand strong in Atlanta. The sect is dominant in Gujarat so everyone 
in this temple shares a particular sense of loss. 24-year-old Ritesh 
Desai was born in Gujarat. He's still in shock from the news. Honestly 
speaking, I prefer not to picture the young children who don't have 
parents any more. There are parents who lost their kids. You know, 
you have mothers that know that their kid is buried under this rubble 
and they don't have any means of actually getting them out because 
even if you put 100 people on that slab to move it, you can't. There 
are cries from beneath the rubble. From the moment they heard the 
news about the earthquake Friday, Rajesh Patel and Ritesh Desai began 
mobilizing efforts to help the victims. The temple is part of the 
International Hindu Network VAPS that provides relief to disaster 
victims. The two men immediately started fund raising to support soup 
kitchens and shelters the group is sending out. They contacted friends 
and groups representing the 40,000 Indian people in Atlanta such as 
the National Federation of Indian Associations and the Gandhi Foundation. 
A local Indian TV program did a special report. Any organization which 
contributes more than 5000 dollars towards the relief will be entitled 
for a minimum of 5 minutes of Namaste Bombay airtime. The show has 
already promised free airtime... By the end of the weekend the groups 
had collected more than 40,000 dollars. Temple volunteer Dina Patel 
is helping run the collection. What we really need at this stage is 
cash. The reason is we have to respond faster. We are thinking both 
short-term and long-term. Short-term we have to help these people 
get food, have some kind... because it is at night it is about 40 
degree or sometimes 35 degrees cold, so we want blankets, we want 
temporary shelter for them. Then what we need is medicines and all 
but what we need is the money so that we can quickly really, really 
react. Mr. Patel says in times like this many people are inclined 
to contribute clothing or even canned food but money is what best 
fuels the efforts of VAPS and there's relatively little delay in getting 
it there. Groups like Red Cross and Care are also on the scene feeding 
hundreds of thousands of people and providing shelter. The US government 
is providing military aircrafts and equipment to help sift through 
the rubble. The United Nations has offered millions of dollars in 
aid including plastic sheeting, blankets and generators. But giving 
in this case is especially meaningful for Indian-Americans according 
to Tilak Ratnalaswami, a Hindu religious leader who has been counseling 
the community. He says these people need to feel they are doing something. 
Yes, of course, because everybody wants to do something right now. 
Everybody wants to get involved, everybody wants to try and... especially 
the people in this country. They feel very helpless and it has brought 
everyone together. This weekend thousands will pack into Hindu Services 
in the Atlanta area and throughout the country. They will mourn loved 
ones and grieve the loss of part of their homeland. There will be 
more appeals for assistance and collections to help the victims. It 
will be a chance for people amid this tragedy. For VOA News now I'm 
Joshua Livs in Atlanta.