The split verdict Wednesday in the trial of two Libyans charged in 
the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 brought to a muddled close a prosecution 
that represented one of the United States' most ambitious attempts 
to use the criminal law as a weapon against a horrific act of international 
terror. Like the trial of four defendants in New York charged in the 
deadly 1998 bombing of two U.S. embassies in East Africa, the trial 
in the Netherlands of the two Libyans demonstrated that the United 
States, and allies like Britain, seem intent on showing that civilized 
countries have options in responding to terrorism _ and are not limited 
to military force. The government's reliance on forensic evidence 
and the standards of criminal law scored one success Wednesday: the 
murder conviction of Abdel Basset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi. The Scottish 
judges presiding over the trial sentenced Megrahi, a Libyan intelligence 
agent, to a life sentence, although he might someday be eligible for 
parole. Megrahi said throughout the trial that he was not guilty. 
But to some of the victims' family members, and some U.S. counterterrorism 
officials, the verdict against Megrahi and the acquittal of a second 
Libyan, Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, was a deeply unsatisfying result. 
The outcome seemed to underscore the limits of criminal law in these 
circumstances by failing to punish those viewed by some intelligence 
and law enforcement authorities as the real culprits: senior Libyan 
officials and Col. Moammar Gadhafi, Libya's leader. With such a mixed 
result, Wednesday's verdict brought little sense of closure to the 
painful case of Pan Am 103. Instead, the trial's end confronted President 
Bush with his first vexing terrorism issue: what to do about Libya 
now. On Wednesday, Bush administration officials said that U.S. sanctions 
against Libya would not be relaxed until Tripoli accepted responsibility 
and compensated family members for the bombing that killed the flight's 
259 passengers and crew members, as well as 11 people on the ground 
in Lockerbie, Scotland. United Nations sanctions were suspended but 
not lifted in 1999 when the suspects were handed over for trial. At 
the Justice Department, Robert S. Mueller III, the acting deputy attorney 
general, said the government would continue its investigation. ``The 
United States remains vigilant in its pursuit to bring to justice 
any other individuals who may have been involved in the conspiracy 
to bring down Pan Am Flight 103,'' Mueller said. But other officials 
said Wednesday that the United States was almost powerless to continue 
the investigation to determine whether Megrahi's superiors were implicated 
in the bombing without the cooperation of Libya. Such assistance, 
they said, is unlikely. Moreover, the verdicts left open broader questions 
about whether the polite rules of courtroom combat, with strict standards 
of evidence, are adequate in the face of brutal acts of terror. Such 
attacks are devised by the perpetrators to make it difficult, if not 
impossible, to detect who is responsible, and frustrate the criminal 
justice process. The verdicts Wednesday revived a longstanding debate 
among officials who deal with terrorism. Some experts have said that 
terrorism cannot be viewed as a criminal justice matter, like a bank 
robbery or a homicide. Instead, they have said, it is a national security 
threat that should be dealt with by military force when state sponsorship 
is proven. William P. Barr, who was attorney general when the Justice 
Department brought charges against the two Libyans in 1991, said justice 
had been done in the Pan Am 103 case. But he added, ``The main question 
is whether the criminal justice system is in itself the right response.'' 
Although the record has been erratic, presidents have at times adopted 
more forceful approaches. President Bill Clinton ordered cruise missile 
strikes after the East Africa embassy bombings. Those strikes were 
aimed at Osama bin Laden, whom Washington accuses of being the mastermind 
of the attacks, even though the bin Laden-inspired terrorist apparatus 
is a stateless organization of anti-American Islamic militants. Senior 
U.S. security officials have weighed how to respond to other terror 
attacks, like the bombing of the Navy destroyer USS Cole, which killed 
17 sailors in October. So far, while the investigation uncovered some 
possible links to bin Laden, no military action has been taken. In 
1986, President Ronald Reagan ordered air strikes against Libya after 
U.S. intelligence agencies determined that it was responsible for 
a terrorist bombing at a discotheque in Berlin frequented by U.S. 
servicemen. But there has never been any military action against Libya 
in response to Pan Am 103.