yugoslavia, fresh from its sudden successful democratic revolution, 
now turns to a new task -- rebuilding a nation devastated by war and 
economic ruin. nbc's jim maceda. the first day on the job for vojislav 
kostunica -- the new president of yugoslavia meeting with the army's 
top brass, who until thursday's popular uprising were loyal to ousted 
leader slobodan milosevic. the army now says it will obey kostunica's 
authority. this is a new era in our political life and in our life 
in general. serbs awoke to the news and the hope of a fresh start, 
but in downtown belgrade, not much felt new for dragisha and his family, 
who wait on line every sunday for at least five hours to fill their 
gas tank. "we've heard that economic sanctions will be lifted," he 
says. "and we hope that gasoline will be plentiful again." sanctions 
may be lifted as early as tomorrow, after a decade of crippling the 
country. hundreds of factories -- derelict under communism or destroyed 
by nato bombs, some $4 billion in damage. real unemployment is close 
to 50%. those who have jobs saw their salaries whither away under 
milosevic's rule. "ten years ago," says this worker, "i earned $1,000 
a month. today, i make 10 to 15 times less, and i'm better off than 
most." the new government, when it is formed, could have a short-lived 
honeymoon if serbs don't see very quickly how voting for democracy 
can be translated into concrete improvements in their lives. today, 
the first encouraging news, norway's foreign minister pledging $20 
million in aid, but economists say at least $500 million is needed 
for a quick fix -- improving an outmoded power grid, stocking stores 
with more basic commodities and salvaging an impoverished welfare 
system. what is kostunica's biggest problem? everything. everything. 
even optimists think it will take ten years to catch up with the rest 
of eastern europe, but today in churches throughout serbia, newlyweds 
believe their future is a lot brighter. jim maceda, nbc news, belgrade.