now to the revolution in yugoslavia. the french foreign minister said 
today the european union will lift some economic sanctions against 
yugoslavia tomorrow now that slobodan milosevic is out of power. but 
his exit from office doesn't mean the former strong man will be standing 
trial for war crimes any time soon. here's abc's bob woodruff. today 
belgrade is quiet. the parliament building that was attacked and burned 
has become a tourist site, and life is returning to normal. but slobodan 
milosevic, the accused war criminal, is still here. the new president, 
vojislav kostunica, refuses to send him to the hague. although milosevic's 
son marko fled the country yesterday for russia, milosevic shows no 
sign of leaving. just three days ago as the mobs attacked anything 
associated with their leader, it looked like he was finished, that 
a war crimes trial was likely. but somehow he survived. in many ways, 
this national uprising was not as dramatic as it appeared. although 
milosevic himself was forced from power, the system that has protected 
him and the other accused war criminals remains in place. both the 
federal and the state parliaments here are still stacked with milosevic 
supporters. his friends control much of the economy. there's no question 
in government and outside of government milosevic's old cronies still 
have a certain grasp on power. but i don't think that power is going 
to last very long. even if the opposition weakens the milosevic machine, 
most ordinary serbs want to keep him in the country to try him for 
corruption and election fraud. to judge him here and after that to 
judge in hague and after that to kill him. war crimes are just not 
talked about much in serbia. the state-controlled media never reported 
on them. most serbs have never viewed the crime scenes in bosnia, 
croatia and kosovo. i think more than 90% of serbs don't even know 
that serbs committed any war crimes in these three wars that milosevic 
lost. so the pressure to extradite milosevic will have to come from 
the west and serbia, his circle remains strong enough to keep him 
here -- at least for now. bob woodruff, abc news, belgrade.