The first conversation Vojislav Kostunica ever had with Slobodan Milosevic 
was on Friday night, when Milosevic, faced with a popular revolt, 
finally conceded defeat in the Yugoslav presidential elections and 
agreed to go on television to say so. Kostunica, 56, a constitutional 
lawyer born into a legal family with a tradition of opposing the communists, 
had always kept his distance from Milosevic. That was a sharp contrast 
to more prominent opposition leaders, like Zoran Djindjic and Vuk 
Draskovic, who had negotiated with him or even joined his ruling coalition. 
It was Kostunica's image as the anti-Milosevic _ his apparently uncorrupted, 
humble, unpretentious and somehow normal air _ that made him a perfect 
candidate for these elections, which became a referendum on Milosevic 
himself. Kostunica, who has a deep sense of Serbian history and nationalism 
and is an outspoken critic of NATO's bombing war against Yugoslavia 
over Kosovo, could not be accused of ``collaboration'' with NATO and 
the West. He was a bridge over which many Milosevic supporters could 
walk into opposition. But when the opposition _ a loose coalition 
of 18 parties, including his own _ asked him to be their candidate, 
it took Kostunica a long time to decide to run, he said. He kept wondering 
why some opposition leaders, who had never disguised their mistrust 
of his nationalism, wanted him as their candidate. His devotion to 
principle was often seen by others, not always incorrectly, as a form 
of political inactivity and obstinacy. One leader said: ``He always 
knew what was wrong with everyone's ideas. He knew what he didn't 
want, but not what he did.'' He described his own indecision about 
running this way: ``It was a joke that among the undecided voters 
in Belgrade was Vojislav Kostunica.'' But opinion polling showed him 
as the opposition's best candidate _ with the most positives and, 
most important, the fewest negatives. Kostunica soon understood that 
the task was both important and inescapable, he said. Overcoming what 
he describes as his innate skepticism and pessimism, he began a campaign 
of retail politics, driving all over Yugoslavia to shake hands, hold 
rallies and appear on local news programs, that inspired him to real 
optimism. When he won the election outright in the first round, but 
was denied his victory through vote fraud, he refused any effort by 
Milosevic to compromise. Vojislav Kostunica was born in Belgrade on 
March 24, 1944. He graduated from Belgrade University Law School in 
1966, earning a master's degree in 1970 with a thesis on ``The political 
theory and practice of the constitutional judiciary in Yugoslavia.'' 
In 1974, however, he was fired from his job as a lecturer at the law 
school for defending a senior professor's criticism of changes to 
the constitution made that year by Tito. In 1989, when Yugoslavia's 
new leader, Milosevic, tried to co-opt intellectuals and offered to 
rehire those fired in 1974, only Kostunica refused. Moving to an academic 
institute, Kostunica received a doctorate in 1976 with a thesis on 
``Institutionalized Opposition in Capitalist Political Systems,'' 
which formed the basis for a book. Despite his criticism of U.S. foreign 
policy, he describes himself as a Western liberal, with a belief in 
free speech, an independent media and judiciary, and the rule of law. 
He translated the Federalist Papers into Serbo-Croatian in 1981, and 
was a member of a committee to defend freedom of speech in the early 
1980s, when the post-Tito regime cracked down on advocates of nationalism 
ranging from Franjo Tudjman in Croatia and Vojislav Seselj in Serbia 
to Alija Izetbegovic in Bosnia and Adem Demaci in Kosovo. Two of those 
men _ Tudjman and Izetbegovic _ went on to become presidents of their 
republics, just as Kostunica has now of his. With Djindjic, he helped 
found the Democratic Party in 1989, but left when it split in 1992 
to found his own Democratic Party of Serbia. He and the party believed 
that the Serbian national question was central, and he supported the 
efforts of Radovan Karadzic for self-determination by the Serbs in 
Bosnia. Kostunica condemned ethnic cleansing and did not lend any 
support to paramilitaries. But he has criticized the war-crimes tribunal 
in The Hague, Netherlands, as a political instrument of U.S. policy, 
not an independent legal institution. And he says he will not arrest 
Milosevic or hand him over to the tribunal for trial on charges stemming 
from the Kosovo war. Karadzic and the Bosnian Serb Gen. Ratko Mladic, 
who has been living in Belgrade, were both indicted for war crimes 
in Bosnia. Kostunica has refused to say whether he would extradite 
them, saying that he has higher priorities now and that extradition 
is not within the scope of the Yugoslav president. Another complication 
is that both men are citizens of Bosnia, not Yugoslavia. In Kostunica's 
refusal to answer is a clear reluctance, but also an understanding 
that turning the two men over to the tribunal might be part of the 
price for the reintegration into Europe that Yugoslavia craves. Kostunica 
speaks English, German and French. He and his wife, Zorica Radovic, 
also a lawyer, have no children. They live with a dog and two cats 
in a small apartment in the Dorcol section of Belgrade. However impractically, 
he says he wants to remain there even as president, choosing not to 
occupy the official residences used by Tito and Milosevic.