Seeking to clear backers of Slobodan Milosevic from the political 
playing field, allies of President Vojislav Kostunica said they would 
ask for the dismissal of the government of Serbia, Yugoslavia's dominant 
republic. The plan was announced Sunday by Mladjan Dinkic, chief economic 
adviser to Kostunica, and tipped to become the head of the Yugoslav 
central bank. Dinkic said they would request the dismissal at a meeting 
Monday of Serbia's parliament, where Milosevic's Socialist party forms 
the majority. Although Kostunica was sworn in as Yugoslav president 
Sunday, several hurdles still stand in his way before he can push 
through democratic reforms after 13 years of autocratic rule by Milosevic. 
That rule ended after a popular uprising last week forced Milosevic 
to accept defeat in Sept. 24 presidential elections. Milosevic appointees 
remain under Kostunica in the federal government until he and his 
advisers can name a new prime minister and Cabinet acceptable to a 
majority in parliament. And on the Serbian government level, the leadership 
is also mostly pro-Milosevic. Kostunica's faction will ask Serbian 
President Milan Milutinovic to fire Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic 
and his Cabinet, Dinkic said. Both Milutinovic and Marjanovic were 
among Milosevic's trusted cronies. Like Milosevic, Milutinovic was 
indicted last year by the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague for 
atrocities committed by Yugoslav forces in Kosovo. ``They must be 
sacked right away, in order to prevent them from doing any more damage,'' 
Dinkic said Sunday on a TV phone-in program. Until new elections, 
Serbia should be run by a government of economic experts, he added. 
Serbia, one of two Yugoslav republics, makes up 90 percent of Yugoslavia's 
population of 10 million. Its pro-Milosevic president _ who by law 
has more powers than Kostunica _ controls about 100,000 police, and 
indirectly much of Serbia's economy. Serbia's president and parliament 
are elected separately from federal posts and were not involved in 
the contentious federal vote Sept. 24. Milutinovic and other Serbian 
government leaders were elected in 1998 to four-year terms. How to 
keep the state running on near empty was another problem facing Kostunica. 
Yugoslavia is bankrupt after a decade of stifling international anti-Milosevic 
sanctions and widespread corruption. Dinkic said a further blow to 
the country's economy was narrowly averted in the dying days of the 
Milosevic regime. Dinkic told a televised phone-in program that backers 
of the new president turned off the central bank's computer system 
to prevent raids on state coffers by Milosevic cronies. Dinkic also 
implicated Milosevic in unspecified economic wrongdoing. ``Milosevic 
has at most, a week to leave the country, or he will have to face 
court, and I don't mean the one in The Hague,'' said Dinkic, alluding 
to the U.N. war crimes court in the Netherlands that has indicted 
the former president. Of Milosevic's allies, Dinkic said: ``They tried 
to take away at least 50 million German marks ($22.5 million) electronically 
and in cash.'' Earlier, Norway's Foreign Minister Thorbjoern Jagland, 
and Dinkic, demanded that Milosevic be prosecuted for vote-rigging. 
``We now expect state prosecutors to bring charges against Slobodan 
Milosevic,'' Dinkic said. A human rights group in Yugoslavia, the 
Humanitarian Law Fund, also demanded punishment for the ousted autocrat, 
issuing long lists of his alleged misdeeds. Yugoslavia suffered a 
decade of international sanctions under Milosevic meant to punish 
him for starting four Balkan wars that were accompanied by a string 
of atrocities. The sanctions _ and rampant corruption ascribed to 
Milosevic cronies _ have left the country bankrupt. Seeking to ease 
the suffering, the European Union said Sunday that it would start 
trying to lift those economic sanctions, including an oil embargo 
imposed during the Kosovo war in 1999. Dinkic also called for a donor's 
conference on Yugoslavia with the aim of injecting at least $500 million 
into the cash-strapped country over the next year.