The government of Serbia, the largest republic of Yugoslavia and a 
bastion of power for former strongman Slobodan Milosevic, resigned 
Monday, paving the way for new elections. The resignation came as 
Yugoslav Prime Minister Momir Bulatovic, a Milosevic ally, also stepped 
down, Tanjug news agency said. The moves constitute a sharp blow to 
Milosevic's efforts to keep a foothold in Yugoslavia's institutions. 
The top leaders in the Serbian government were close Milosevic allies. 
Serbia is Yugoslavia's largest republic, accounting for 90 percent 
of Yugoslavia's population of 10 million. Pro-democracy leader Zoran 
Djindjic said that new elections for the Serbian legislature, which 
is separate from the Yugoslav parliament, will be held on Dec. 19. 
Serbian lawmakers will formally announce the decision about the government 
and the election date at a session later Monday, Djindjic said. ``We 
have achieved an important step in trying to create a transitional 
government, to create condition for free and fair elections,'' Djindjic 
said. If the Serbian government were allowed to remain in place, it 
would have been in position to block many reforms the new government 
of Yugoslav President Vojislav Kostunica wants to implement. Given 
the current popular wave of support for the new president, Kostunica 
is likely to win a strong majority in the republic's new parliament. 
Serbia's president and parliament are elected separately from federal 
posts and were not involved in the contentious federal vote Sept. 
24. Serbian President Milan Milutinovic and other Serbian government 
leaders were elected in 1998 to four-year terms. Djindjic said that 
a transitional government consisting of economic experts and party 
leaders will be formed to replace the existing Serbian administration, 
which is headed by Milosevic's staunch ally, Mirko Marjanovic. Kostunica's 
allies have insisted that the pro-Milosevic authorities in Serbia 
had lost all legitimacy after a massive triumph by pro-democracy forces 
in elections last month. Meanwhile, Yugoslavia's defense minister 
attempted Monday to rally opponents of the new government, issuing 
a last-ditch appeal to Milosevic's shaken supporters not to abandon 
the ousted leader. Gen. Dragoljub Ojdanic said that the disunity among 
the Serbs is inciting the plans of our proven (foreign) enemies'' 
to occupy the country. Milosevic's allies have consistently referred 
to Kostunica and his followers as Western lackeys bent on taking over 
the Serb state. ``If we continue like this, we won't get far ... how 
can we save the people of Serbia, how can we prevent our extinction,'' 
Ojdanic said, indicating that if the pro-democracy forces prevail 
in the country, the Serbs would ``disappear.'' Ojdanic, a close Milosevic 
ally who has also been indicted for war crimes, has not formally recognized 
Kostunica as the new Yugoslav president and is not expected to keep 
his position in the new government. He has no direct control of the 
military, which has fallen under Kostunica's command. Still, he retains 
influence among the military brass, and any call he might make to 
rally pro-Milosevic forces could be problematic for the new regime. 
``Is the struggle for power more important that the fate of the nation?'' 
Ojdanic said in a statement. The military leadership _ which consist 
mostly of Milosevic loyalists _ has only grudgingly endorsed Kostunica 
as the new head of state. The top generals will likely be all replaced 
as part of a sweeping purge of Milosevic's supporters which many pro-democracy 
activists and the pro-Western leadership of Montenegro _ Yugoslavia's 
other republic _ have long been demanding. Yugoslavia was calm Monday, 
and there were no apparent signs of any trouble. On Sunday, Montenegro's 
pro-Western President Milo Djukanovic and Djindjic agreed to fire 
all of the top army generals, including Ojdanic. Kostunica, Djukanovic 
and the Serbian president comprise the Supreme Defense Council, which 
will decide on the changes in the next few days, the Montenegrin Vijesti 
daily said. Although Kostunica was sworn in as Yugoslav president 
on Saturday, numerous hurdles still stand in his way before he can 
push through democratic reforms after 13 years of autocratic rule 
by Milosevic. That rule ended after a popular uprising last week forced 
Milosevic to accept defeat in Sept. 24 presidential elections. Meanwhile, 
a mob of angry workers attacked Radoman Bozovic, a close Milosevic 
aide and the director of a major trading corporation. He tried to 
flee from his car, but he was caught and beaten. His bodyguards snatched 
him into a nearby building for safety. Later, Bozovic resigned as 
the head of the export-import company. In the third largest Serbian 
city of Nis, workers stormed a state-run textile factory Nitex, demanding 
the Socialist management be fired. Vladimir Stambuk, a neo-communist 
official and dean of the School of Political Sciences at Belgrade 
University was fired Monday. Meanwhile in Luxembourg, the European 
Union foreign ministers debated lifting some economic sanctions against 
Yugoslavia on Monday, a step toward rebuilding the war-torn country 
after Kostunica became its new president.