Two months after President Robert Mugabe bowed to election results 
and welcomed an opposition into the Parliament for the first time 
with promises of cooperation, relations have soured. The opposition 
leader warned Mugabe 10 days ago that if he didn't step aside, he 
would be ousted ``violently.'' On Monday, the government arrested 
three opposition members of Parliament on charges of inciting violence 
and sprayed tear gas on scores of their supporters, who sang and chanted 
outside the courthouse before scattering through clouds of choking 
smoke. Officials also vowed to arrest the opposition leader, Morgan 
Tsvangirai, on similar grounds. The police converged on the airport 
Monday morning, awaiting Tsvangirai's return from a trip to South 
Africa, but he managed to elude them and return home, where he held 
a news conference on his lawn. The opposition warned that arrests 
would only cause ``unnecessary conflict'' in the country. But neither 
side seemed willing to back down. The rising tensions reflect the 
hardening of political lines just two months after Zimbabwe's new 
opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change, took its seats 
in Parliament, which had long been controlled by Mugabe under a virtual 
one-party system. In the first heady days of the opening session, 
there were handshakes and kisses in the elegant chamber and promises 
of cooperation across party lines. But the jubilation has given way 
to frustration, particularly among some supporters of the opposition 
party. At his news conference Monday, Tsvangirai was defiant. He emphasized 
that he was committed to upholding the law. But he said he did not 
regret making a recent speech in which he told Mugabe, ``if you don't 
want to go peacefully, we will remove you violently.'' ``I will be 
phoning the commissioner of police; I understand he's looking for 
me,'' Tsvangirai said as the cameras rolled. ``I have no regrets. 
It was a very stern warning. He either chooses to go peacefully or 
the people may resort to uprising.'' Meanwhile, government officials 
warned that the opposition politicians could be charged with treason, 
which carries a possible death sentence. ``He is a criminal,'' Jonathan 
Moyo, the minister of information, said of Tsvangirai in an interview 
Monday. ``He has violated the law. These people are not Martin Luther 
Kings. This is an organization full of individuals who will not hesitate 
to use violence.'' The Movement for Democratic Change, which won 57 
of the 120 seats that were up for a vote in the June elections, is 
still outnumbered and outvoted by the governing party. The economy, 
which propelled most urban voters to abandon Mugabe's party, continues 
to unravel. The government continues to disregard court rulings and 
to suppress freedom of speech. Within the opposition, a small but 
vocal group is beginning to argue that the party should push the public 
to take to the streets and force Mugabe out of office before his term 
ends in 2002. Most opposition members still prefer to oppose the government 
in Parliament. And they insist that Tsvangirai's comment about an 
uprising was a slip of the tongue and not official policy. But Tsvangirai 
has not hesitated to compare Mugabe to Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, 
who was forced out of power by popular will. And it is no secret that 
some opposition officials have been inspired by the events in Yugoslavia 
and now see popular protest as a way to bring an end to Mugabe's government 
after its 20 years in power. ``There is this push to have a popular 
revolution to oust the president, but that is not the way forward,'' 
said Alfred Nhema, a political analyst and the chairman of the political 
science department at the University of Zimbabwe.