finally tonight in, case you heard about it and missed it, "saturday 
night live's" version of the bush-gore debate including dead-on parodies 
of both candidates. their season started this weekend. the tradition 
that started with achieve chase as gerry ford dan aykroyd as jimmy 
carter is alive and well. we begin with a fake jim lehrer. mr. vice 
president, during this campaign you have frequently called the bush 
tax plan a risky scheme. why? well, jim, governor bush and i have 
two very different plans to offer tax relief to american families. 
in his plan, the wealthiest 1% of americans would receive nearly 50% 
of the benefits. my plan, jim, is different. rather than squander 
the surplus on a risky tax cut for the wealthy, i would put it in 
what i call a lock box. governor bush, your response. i don't know 
what that was all about, but i'll tell you this, don't mess with texas. 
i didn't mess with texas. governor bush, i listened very carefully 
to the vice president's remarks and i honestly don't believe he messed 
with texas. now governor bush. jim, could i just say that in my plan 
the lock box would be used only for social security and medicare. 
it would have two different locks. governor bush -- now -- now one 
of the keys to the lock box would be kept by the president. the other 
key would be sealed in a small magnetic container. and placed under 
the bumper of the senate majority leader's car. governor bush, the 
next question is for you. two weeks ago at a meeting of the economic 
club of detroit, you said the following, quote --samore seldom than 
not, the movies gives us exquisite sex and wholesome violence that 
underscores our values. every two-child did, i will. end quow. what 
did you mean by that? pass. really? no idea what that could mean? 
could be education. jim, i believe that what my opponent intended 
to say that was all too often the explicit sex and violence in films 
undermines our values. bingo, that was it. that was it. i happen to 
agree with governor bush on that and i commend him for it. but let 
me add something -- let me add something in my plan the lock box would 
also be camouflaged. now, to all outward appearances it would be a 
leather bound edition of the count of monte cristo but it wouldn't 
be. it would be the lock box. governor bush, this question is for 
you, and it concerns foreign policy. last week in serbian elections, 
we sought apparent defeat of president slobodan milosevic by challenger 
yojislav kostunica, yet milosevic refused to step aside. as president, 
would you apply pressure on milosevic and openly aid kostunica and 
his party, or by working with neighbors such as the leader of croatia 
and hungary and greece? well, first of all i think that any instability 
in that first country you mentioned is troubling . and clearly the 
second guy you spoke of beat the first guy. personally, i favor seek 
the diplomatic help of the person i call guy number three. but i'm 
not going to pronounce -- i'm not going to pronounce any of their 
names tonight, because i don't believe that's in our national interest. 
well, that brings us to the close of tonight's debate. each candidate 
will now give a brief closing statement. jim, could i give two closing 
statements? i'm afraid not. in fact we're almost out of town so i 
will instead ask each candidate to sum up in a single word the best 
argument for his candidacy. governor bush? strategery. vice president 
gore. lock box. strategery and lock box. hats off to the talented 
crew of this career's "saturday night live."