The popular uprising that brought Vojislav Kostunica to power in Yugoslavia 
took a firmer hold on Monday, with the resignation of two crucial 
allies of Slobodan Milosevic and the announcement of early elections 
to the Serbian parliament. One of those who resigned was Yugoslav's 
prime minister, Momir Bulatovic. He had been a Milosevic ally, and 
his departure means the dismantling of the old federal government. 
Interior Minister Vlajko Stojiljikovic, another close Milosevic ally, 
who controls the Serbian police, also resigned. In other encouraging 
news for the new government, the European Union lifted major sanctions 
and pledged to contribute about $2 billion in aid to help rebuild 
Yugoslavia. Milan Milutinovic, the president of Serbia _ the more 
important of the two remaining republics that comprise Yugoslavia 
_ and leaders of the parties in the Serbian parliament agreed to dissolve 
it and call elections for mid-December, probably on Dec. 17. The Serbian 
parliament, which had been controlled by Milosevic with the Serbian 
Radical Party of Vojislav Seselj, was not up for election on Sept. 
24, when Kostunica defeated Milosevic for the federal presidency and 
elections were held for the federal parliament. Yet it is in Serbia 
and in its government where real constitutional power lies, not in 
the federal government. Under Milosevic, constitutional distinctions 
mattered less in a system he controlled. But under Kostunica, a constitutional 
lawyer, the distinctions between the narrow competency of the federal 
government and the broad powers of the Serbian one will have greater 
impact. After new elections, almost sure to include voting for a new 
Serbian president, conflicts within a fragile opposition suddenly 
in power could become more obvious, and Kostunica's power may be less 
sweeping than it appears now. In this half-finished revolution, where 
Kostunica's allies consider Milosevic's continuing control over the 
Serbian police and special police their greatest danger, the dismantling 
of the Serbian power structure has been crucial. The new government 
made an important start on Monday, with the agreement for new Serbian 
elections and the resignation under pressure of Stojiljikovic, the 
interior minister. But Rade Markovic, the chief of the secret police, 
has still not resigned and is feeling more confident about his position, 
an opposition leader said on Monday night. New Serbian elections should 
do much to wipe out the parliamentary position of Milosevic's Socialist 
Party and its coalition partner, the Yugoslav United Left of his wife, 
Mirjana Markovic. For that reason alone, said Ognjen Pribicevic, an 
adviser to an opposition leader, the agreements on Monday matter. 
``The Socialist Party will be over for now, that's the most important 
thing, which means that Milosevic will be over,'' he said. ``It means 
we are entering a new time.'' He also is very concerned about the 
situation in the manifold layers of the Serbian police that Milosevic 
pampered and nurtured, even if they were unwilling to shoot at protesters 
last week. Kostunica's allies want the Interior Ministry job for themselves 
in what would be a provisional, all-party Serbian government to run 
the republic until the December elections. But negotiations bogged 
down on Monday with the parties currently in the Serbian parliament, 
especially with Seselj, who wants more seats in the new government 
but who also spoke trenchantly and bitterly about the extra-legal 
revolutionary capturing of institutions by some of Kostunica's supporters. 
``We are not willing to legalize this putsch,'' Seselj said. ``We 
have been robbed of the police. Everything being done now is unlawful, 
and we refuse to give it an umbrella of legitimacy. If there a chance 
to put things back into legal and constitutional boundaries, we will 
play along. Revolution is revolution, and a putsch is a putsch. It 
is honorable to be a counterrevolutionary today.'' Seselj has broken 
with Milosevic and helped Kostunica challenge election fraud. But 
he is also trying to protect his party, which could suffer badly in 
new elections, and negotiate a better deal with the new democratic 
forces. A supporter of Kostunica, Dragan Veselinov, a party leader 
from Vojvodina, answered: ``This is not about a coup, this is not 
about a putsch. This is about the will of the people. The people have 
taken power. That's what this is about. The people spoke at elections 
you convoked.'' He criticized the Milosevic coalition for hanging 
on when it has been so thoroughly repudiated and said: ``You are the 
former ones. You are ghosts from the past. This nation is watching 
you for the last time. Your faces will no longer be around in December. 
In nine and a half weeks, people will only see smiles here.'' The 
bitterness is real. Kostunica talks of constitutional legality, but 
others in the coalition that backed him fear that if they move too 
slowly to assert control over every powerful institution, Milosevic 
and his allies will take advantage of legal niceties and stage a comeback. 
It is an awkward mix, conceded Cedomir Jovanovic, a top aide to the 
opposition campaign manager Zoran Djindjic, leader of the Democratic 
Party. ``We started a process and our intention now is to legitimate 
that process,'' Jovanovic said. ``But to slow it down or even stop 
it would be dangerous.'' Seselj's presidential candidate, Tomislav 
Nikolic, carried the accusation further. ``You would have never proved 
electoral theft if we had not helped you,'' he said. ``Everything 
else that carried over into Serbia _ which was not at issue in this 
election _ is a putsch. It is not the people's will for you to go 
into universities and take over,'' he said. ``Now you're looking for 
the government of Serbia to provide you with a veneer of legality,'' 
Nikolic said. ``You break down doors. You depose and fire people, 
you come in with guns and pistols. Have any of these here present 
dictators, as you routinely call them, ever put a gun to any of your 
heads?'' Seselj then warned that ``this revolution, too, will soon 
start eating its children,'' especially over the issues of money, 
benefits and privileges that power brings. Despite the criticism, 
however, the parliament will be dissolved and a new Serbian government 
will be negotiated, with opposition membership, that will further 
dismantle Milosevic's control. The newly elected federal parliament 
is still squabbling, but the resignation of Bulatovic, the prime minister, 
makes it more likely that his Montenegrin Socialist Party will go 
into coalition with Kostunica's supporters in the federal government. 
Because the September election was boycotted by the Montenegrin president, 
Milo Djukanovic, the pro-Western leader, he has no seats in the new 
Yugoslav parliament. But Kostunica wants to find a federal government, 
possibly made up of technicians and experts, that Djukanovic can tacitly 
support, at least until new federal elections, which could also come 
within three months. A decision by the Serbian parliament to reject 
a motion to scrap a Milosevic law banning political activity at universities 
brought a few hundred students to protest outside the parliament. 
They booed Draskovic and staged a march on Milosevic's home in the 
suburb of Dedinje, which was easily deflected by police. There was 
a moment of drama when Seselj, a bruising figure, left the parliament, 
and some of the protesters, saying that he was obstructing democratic 
change, scuffled with his bodyguards. A weapon was fired into the 
air, but no one was hurt. There were more moments of revolutionary 
revenge on Monday. Workers attacked Radoman Bozovic, a Milosevic ally 
and director of Genex, the largest state-run import-export company. 
He tried to flee from his car, but he was caught and beaten. His bodyguards 
snatched him and moved him into a nearby building for safety. Later, 
Bozovic resigned. In a plaintive appeal, Yugoslavia's defense minister, 
Gen. Dragoljub Ojdanic, urged Milosevic's allies to rally. Otherwise, 
he said in an open letter, the Serbs might face extinction as a people, 
saying that ``disunity among the Serbs is inciting the plans of our 
proven enemies'' to occupy the country, referring to allegations that 
the opposition here is subject to NATO control.