After shunning America during the election campaign, President Vojislav 
Kostunica's allies are reaching out to the West as they seek to rid 
the government of the last remnants of Slobodan Milosevic's regime. 
``Without a strategic partnership with America, there is no solution 
for the Serbian national interests,'' key aide Zoran Djindjic said. 
Kostunica shunned contacts with the United States during the campaign 
for the Sept. 24 election because of Serb anger over last year's NATO 
bombing campaign. But the country is destitute. Many Yugoslavs want 
an end to the international isolation imposed on their country after 
the Balkan wars of the Milosevic era. Kostunica planned to meet Tuesday 
with French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine, who will be the first 
Cabinet minister of a NATO country which bombed Yugoslavia to visit 
Belgrade after last week's uprising against Milosevic. Vedrine's visit 
comes one day after the European Union lifted economic sanctions against 
Yugoslavia and offered $2 billion in aid to help rebuild the country. 
Anxious to shore up his power base, Kostunica is putting his own supporters 
in charge of the country's most important institutions, including 
the police, judiciary, banks and state-run companies. Milosevic remains 
out of public view, holed up at one of the president's official residences 
in a Belgrade suburb. But two of his key allies, federal Prime Minister 
Momir Bulatovic and Serbian Interior Minister Vlajko Stojiljkovic 
_ who controlled about 100,000 policemen _ stepped down Monday, along 
with Serbian Health Minister Milovan Bojic. All major Serbian parties 
agreed to early elections for the Serbian parliament, a move which 
could help remove much of what remains of Milosevic's base. Serbia 
is home to more than 90 percent of Yugoslavs. The Serbian parliament 
holds considerable authority in Yugoslavia, which also includes tiny 
Montenegro. Still, the pro-Milosevic Serbian government refused Monday 
to step down immediately in favor of an administration dominated by 
economic experts. As long as the Serbian government remains in place, 
it could block many pro-democracy reforms at the federal level. Serbia's 
president and parliament are elected separately from federal posts 
and were not involved in the contentious federal vote Sept. 24. Serbian 
President Milan Milutinovic and other Serbian government leaders were 
elected in 1998 to four-year terms. In the streets, factories and 
other public places, anger against Milosevic's cronies sometimes boiled 
over into violence. Crowds in Belgrade beat Radoman Bozovic, a close 
Milosevic aide and the director of a major Belgrade trading corporation. 
He subsequently resigned. In Nis, workers stormed the state-run textile 
factory, Nitex, demanding the management be fired. Employees of Investbanka 
demanded that Borka Vucic, a top financial associate of Milosevic, 
leave the Belgrade headquarters of the state-run bank because ``her 
safety is jeopardized.'' In a last-ditch appeal to Milosevic supporters, 
Yugoslavia's defense minister Gen. Dragoljub Ojdanic urged people 
not to abandon the ousted leader. Ojdanic, a close Milosevic ally 
who has also been indicted for war crimes, has not formally recognized 
Kostunica as the new Yugoslav president and is not expected to keep 
his position in the new government. He has no direct control of the 
military, which has fallen under Kostunica's command. Still, he retains 
influence among the military brass, and any call he might make to 
rally pro-Milosevic forces could be problematic for the new regime. 
China, once a staunch Milosevic supporter, refused to let his son 
Marko Milosevic into the country Monday. Traveling on a diplomatic 
passport, the younger Milosevic arrived at Beijing's Capital Airport 
from Russia. Officials there stopped him and quickly put him back 
on the Aeroflot flight to Moscow, Russian reporters said. The Aeroflot 
plane later arrived back at Moscow's international airport, but Milosevic 
did not appear in the arrivals area. The Russian Foreign Ministry 
and Yugoslav Embassy in Moscow had no word on his whereabouts.