A Serbian journalist, Miroslav Filipovic, walked free from a military 
prison here on Tuesday, the first political prisoner to be released 
since the democratic opposition wrested power from Slobodan Milosevic 
last week. The Supreme Military Court in Belgrade ordered his release 
pending retrial, ruling that there had been serious violations of 
legal procedure in his trial. The new leadership of Yugoslavia under 
President Vojislav Kostunica appears to have influenced the decision, 
since it released news that he would be freed the day before the ruling. 
Sentenced to seven years and imprisoned five months ago for reporting 
on Yugoslav army war crimes in Kosovo, Filipovic was one of three 
Serbian political prisoners who rights groups and democratic leaders 
said were victims of Milosevic's increasingly vindictive regime. Some 
700 ethnic Albanians from Kosovo are also in Serbian jails, the majority 
considered political prisoners because they were detained arbitrarily 
during the war in Kosovo last year. And in perhaps the most serious 
case of all, the whereabouts of a former Yugoslav president, Ivan 
Stambolic, who was abducted a month ago, remain unknown. His wife 
and his lawyer say Milosevic was behind his disappearance. Since Oct. 
5, when Milosevic's power crumbled in the face of public outrage, 
Barbara Davis, representative of the U.N. high commissioner for human 
rights, and other rights advocates have appealed to the new leaders 
to focus on victims of rights abuses. ( Kostunica has not issued an 
amnesty but has said he wants politics out of the courtroom, a European 
diplomat said.) The appeals have resulted in the release without charges 
of seven European foreigners, caught in recent months without visas 
and accused of spying by the state media. Dozens of protesters arrested 
during demonstrations Thursday in Serbia were also released. Filipovic's 
release gives hope to the remaining political prisoners, some of whom 
face sentences as long as 20 years. It is a sign that the military 
is moving with the new democratic changes. But Stambolic's case looks 
particularly desperate; rights advocates fear he has been killed _ 
the last of a string of murder victims of the Milosevic regime. He 
was kidnapped on Aug. 25 while out jogging. It took five days for 
the state media to mention his disappearance, which his lawyer, Nikola 
Barovic, said led him to suspect state involvement. The abduction 
occurred during the presidential election campaign, a period of increased 
repression, police surveillance and attacks on critics of Milosevic. 
The police have failed to produce any leads, and the justice minister 
has denied that Stambolic is being detained in any jail in Serbia. 
When the United Nations inquired about his whereabouts, another minister 
accused a U.N. envoy, Jiri Dienstbier, of complicity in the abduction. 
But at least Filipovic can celebrate. He hugged his wife, Slavica, 
in front of the military prison in Nis, home to the Third Army, which 
did the bulk of the fighting in Kosovo. ``The hardest time of my life 
was spent in Nis,'' he said. ``For much of the time I did not know 
what was going on outside. I did not know how much time I would spend 
without my family.'' Filipovic, 49, had been reporting from the southern 
town of Kraljevo for the national daily Danas and the Agence France-Presse 
news service. His arrest came after the publication of an explosive 
story he wrote in April for the Institute for War and Peace Reporting 
on the Yugoslav army's participation in atrocities in Kosovo. He interviewed 
unidentified army officers who described comrades committing atrocities. 
He also referred to an internal army report that revealed a crisis 
of morale at the prospect of another war looming in neighboring Montenegro. 
The interview was published in English and, though it did not appear 
in Serbia, was available on the Internet. Filipovic said he thought 
it was the reference to the plans for war in Montenegro that caused 
his arrest. But fellow journalists ascribed it to his reporting witnesses' 
accounts of war crimes and linking them to the Milosevic regime. ``I 
spent five months inside for no reason,'' he said, ``but that is the 
fate of journalists in our country, although that time is past now.'' 
He said that a radio had helped him follow the momentous protests 
ending Milosevic's rule, and that he had swung from desperation to 
hope during the last weeks, some of them spent in solitary. ``Suddenly 
I had a feeling of hope, and there is no place with less hope than 
prison.''