This is The World, a co-production of the BBC World Service, PRI and 
WGBH in Boston. I am Tony Kahn. The drama in Yugoslavia seemed to 
climax last Thursday when hundreds of thousands of protesters forced 
the ouster of Slobodan Milosevic. But now the events of last week 
are beginning to look like act I. Talks today between supporters of 
Yugoslavia's new President Vojislav Kostunica and members of the Milosevic's 
Socialist party yielded more heat than light. Kostunica's people accused 
the Socialists of trying to hold on to the institutions of power and 
as if on queue, it was announced that a key Milosevic loyalist is 
taking over the interior ministry, which runs the police. The World's 
Nenad Chebeck is in Belgrade. Nenad, what do we know of this Milosevic 
ally? Well, it's Mirco Merianovic who officially still is the Prime 
Minister of Serbia. We have to keep one thing in mind that Vojislav 
Kostunica and the pro-democracy elements in Serbia and Yugoslavia 
have taken over authority on the Federal level, but the key leaders 
of power are on the Republican level. Yugoslavia consists of two Republics, 
Serbia and Montenegro and there were no elections for neither the 
Serbian Parliament, nor the presidency. So the Serbian government 
officially is still in place. But that's all theory, in practice things 
are slightly different. The whole structure of power in Serbia and 
Yugoslavia was based on one man, Milosevic. Once he collapsed, politically 
and he has collapsed when he resigned officially on national television, 
all the old structures of power collapsed together with him. Well, 
what other indications are there since, although, officially you got 
two different parallel governments going on, the reality is that Mr. 
Kostunica is trying to consolidate his power over Yugoslavia. What 
other indications are there that he is having trouble doing that? 
The taking over of all the leaders of power for Mr. Kostunica and 
his allies is a process which definitely takes time. Everybody is 
impatient, especially here in Belgrade and Serbia. The people that 
I see on the street and that I hear from are sick and tired of Milosevic 
cronies appearing on television protesting against this and trying 
to hang on to what ever little power they have at the moment. However, 
Mr. Kostunica and the Democratic Alliance of Serbia has said very 
openly today that they will not put up with this kind of behavior 
for much longer. They have indeed threatened Milosevic allies that 
they are going to bring out the people onto the streets again so that 
a completely new authority can be established. Not just on the Federal 
level, but also on the level of the Republic of Serbia. Let's talk 
a little bit also about other important policies of the government, 
of importance to people outside Yugoslavia, and that is Kosovo. There 
has been some news coming out that Yugoslav troops are going to return 
to Kosovo by the end of the year. What can you tell us about what 
this new government will do in that area? Well, it is a report that 
was brought by today's edition of Vetrivinia Novostate, a Belgrade 
newspaper. They quoted Zoran Zingic, one of the main leaders in the 
Democratic Alliance saying that Yugoslav troops and police will be 
policing the borders between Kosovo and other countries, meaning Macedonia 
and Albania. Basically it is not such a threatening sort of bit of 
a news as it might seem at the moment because the United Nations resolution, 
1244, does actually provide for the presence of Yugoslav troops and 
police on the borders. That part of the resolution here and the resolution 
was never actually applied because right until now, the Yugoslav police 
and military were in the hands of Milosevic. So the international 
community didn't want to have anything to do with the Milosevic forces. 
Well, how is the international community dealing at this point with 
the change of the government? Who is there and what kind of assistance 
are they offering or what is the symbolic value of their being there 
at this point? Well, at the moment it is a race, who is going to get 
to Belgrade first. Yesterday, we had the French foreign minister, 
today we have Budor Homback, who is the head of the international 
community's stability pact for South East Europe. We also saw the 
American diplomat Willie Montgomery who arrived in Belgrade today 
to set up most probably a meeting between a senior U.S. official James 
O'Brien, who is coming to Belgrade, he will be here tomorrow as a 
special representative for President Clinton. He will hold talks, 
probably behind close doors, with President Vojislav Kostunica, but 
the United States is keeping a low profile because there is quite 
a lot of anti-American sentiment on the streets here in Serbia. So 
I believe that Washington realizes that very open support for Mr. 
Vojislav Kostunica could do the man more harm than good at this moment. 
The World's Nenad Chebeck in Belgrade. Thank you very much for speaking 
with us. You are welcome Tony.