Milosevic himself is lying low these days in a government villa in 
Belgrade. He is reportedly using words such as "street coup" to describe 
the riots that toppled him and he is said to be planning a political 
comeback. All of this might suggest a man out of touch with reality, 
but when The World's Jennifer Glass visited the town where Milosevic 
is firm, the reality she found wasn't as simple as you might have 
thought. The gates of Bamby Park were closed on this blustery day. 
This children's theme park in Slobodan Milosevic's home town called 
the "Reeve hut" was built last year at the height of the NATO bombing 
at Serbia by Milosevic's son Marco. Now Bamby Park is deserted, desolate, 
like all of Marco's businesses in Pasriavach. On the town's main street 
is the remains of Marco's cybernet shop. It sold telephones and electronic 
equipment. There is nothing left but broken glass. 17-year-old Myer 
Revonish explains what happened. One man said, "Let's go in Cybernet" 
and started to smash windows and they take TV and telephones and everything 
and they smashed, that's all." Why did they destroy that? Because 
it was Marco Milosevic's. He is the son of the President and took 
money from the workers and he built this. It is not his. Many Yugoslavs 
say the younger Milosevic is a symbol of everything that was wrong 
with his father's rule. Marco fled to Moscow over the weekend with 
his wife and young son. Monday he tried to get into China but was 
refused entry. He is a coward. He is a bad man. He deserves to die. 
I think that we need change in this country. Change is on the way. 
From his Opposition supporters like Slavo Yubnoticks, who represents 
the new President Vojislav Kostunica's political alliance in Pasriavach. 
Matic says when Marco Milosevic left, so too did the thugs that used 
to terrorize the town. Now we have no black jeeps with black windows. 
We have no kitkats with black jackets and I think that we can now 
too live normal life. There are lots of stories about Marco in his 
Islykies and Pasriavach. Last May, in what some believe were the first 
signs of the Milosevic regime was near its end, Marco's bodyguards 
beat up several students who opposed the Milosevic government. The 
students were then accused of attempted murder. The charge was so 
outrageous, the judge and public prosecutor resigned. Matic says since 
the changeover of power last week, he has been asked a lot about Marco 
and the Milosevic legacy. Enough he says. Marco Milosevic for us is 
history and now we have to look for our future not for Marco Milosevic. 
Marco Milosevic is product of politics of his father and now Marco 
Milosevic and Slobodan Milosevic for us only history. But not everyone 
in Pasriavach is happy to see the end of the Milosevic era. Just go 
to City Home where Bion Cosmeniovic is Deputy Mayor and a member of 
the Socialist People Party of Serbia or SPS. Slobodan Milosevic is 
its President. Cosminovic is still fiercely loyal to Milosevic and 
with a bright face on his loss in last month's elections. As President 
Milosevic said it is good for every political party to be in a position 
to get rid of the members that came into the party just to be privileged 
and it is good for SPS to be in a position to find the way to recover 
itself. Cosminovic, who has been in office in Pasriavich for several 
years, begins sweating when asked about the younger Milosevic. He 
insists that Marco believed to be a multimillionaire, had no improper 
business dealings in Yugoslavia and he left the country for personal 
reasons. Over his desk Cosminovic has a picture of Slobodan Milosevic. 
I keep this picture because he was President of my country. And will 
you have a picture of the new President in your office? We have a 
picture of Mr. Kostunica here. no. Cosminovic blames the West for 
his party's defeat. Economic sanctions that crippled the country's 
economy, he said, turned the voters against Milosevic, but he believes 
it is not the end for the former President, that he can remain in 
politics. That's what Slobodan Milosevic promised to do in his concession 
speech Friday night when on National Television he acknowledged that 
he had lost the election, said he was looking forward to spending 
more time with his family and pledged to build a strong Opposition. 
There is no question that Milosevic does still have a following here, 
nearly 2 million people did vote for him in last month's elections. 
Sitting in a Belgrade cafe, writer Slava Jukic says the downfall of 
Milosevic has left a void in his own life. He has been following Milosevic 
closely for a decade. He has talked to friends and business associates 
learning everything he could. Jukic says for 10 years, it is as though 
he has lived with Milosevic, always thinking about what the man was 
doing. I wrote four books about him and still I cannot really understand 
him. Jukic is the Kitty Caley of Yugoslavia. His unauthorized biographies 
of Milosevic and his wife are popular and highly respected. He says, 
he has never seen a relationship like the one between Milosevic and 
his wife Mira. They met in high school in Pasariavich and have been 
inseparable ever since. Mira was the power behind throne he says. 
She built Milosevic's career and in the end he says, she pushed him 
too far. Still, says Jugic, what a career it has been. Milosevic is 
a man without any beliefs. He was in his life everything that the 
man could be. He was a passionate Yugoslav, a passionate nationalist. 
He was in one way a peacekeeper and in other way, he wanted war. Milosevic 
started and lost four Balkan wars. Last year's Kosovo conflict ultimately 
helped and hurt him. NATO's 7 to 8 days of bombing of Yugoslavia gave 
Milosevic a common enemy to rally the people against. On the streets 
of Belgrade there are plentiful postcards of bombed up buildings potraying 
the Serbs as victims of the West. The economic sanctions that accompanied 
the conflict and are partially lifted on Monday, helped further isolate 
an impoverished Yugoslavia and its people. Many of Milosevic observers 
believe his popular support had been waning since the early 1990s 
and he was able to keep his grip on power only through manipulating 
the media, dividing the opposition and using special police and military 
forces to quell possible uprisings. But last week, the voices of the 
public grew too loud. Even the military and police deserted him, joining 
demonstrations in favor of the opposition. On his own, Milosevic seemed 
to have little choice but to step down. The man who replaced him, 
Vojislav Kostunica, says what happens to Milosevic now is not a top 
priority for the new government. Although Milosevic isn't entitled 
war criminal, some Western nations have softened their demands that 
he be transferred to the Hague to face war crimes charges. Many Serbs 
believe he should be tried here. A 20-year-old Yovano Mikhailovic 
couldn't care less. I just want him to disappear from my life forever. 
That's all. We don't wish anything else. Just some little bit of peace 
in this country. In a Belgrade park, a group of elderly Serbs dance 
a folk dance. For them Milosevic was a hero because he did his best 
to create a greater Serbia for Serbs would dominate where they believed 
life would be good for everyone. It is little been on Milosevic's 
step down last week, that dream was consigned to history, at least 
for now. For The World, I am Jennifer Glass in Belgrade.