With 27 days to go in the US presidential campaign, the two major 
candidates are about to meet in the second of three debates. Just 
a moment from now, we will bring it you, live from Wakeforest University. 
Hello, I'm Kent Kline in Washington. With millions of Americans watching 
on television, Vice-President Al Gore, the Democratic Party candidate 
will try to reverse the small lead that Republican George W. Bush 
well, the governor of Texas has built into public opinion polls. I'm 
joined by VOA National correspondent Jim Malone and our political 
commentator, Professor Ron Walters of the University of Marilyn. Jim, 
what should we look for in this debate? Well, Kent this race is settling 
into a choice in some ways between character and competence. Professor 
Walters, what do you think we should be looking for? Well, I think 
depending upon who comes out ahead in this race. We will all be trying 
to evaluate the impact of this new format on the result. Thanks, we 
will be checking back with both of you after the debate. Now, this 
debate will run approximately 90 minutes and the format will differ 
somewhat from that of the first debate, as we will hear in just a 
moment. Just a reminder that you can find our audio and video streams 
at www.voa.gov/newsnow. Now, we take you to Winston-Salem and the 
moderator, journalist Jim Lair. Greetings form Lee Chapel at Wakeforest 
University at Winston-Salem, North Carolina, I'm Jim Lair at the New 
Hours on PBS. Welcome, to the second election 2000 debate between 
the Republican candidate for President, Governor George W. Bush of 
Texas and the Democratic candidate, Vice-President Al Gore. These 
debates are sponsored by the Commission on Presidential debates. The 
format and the rules are those negotiated by representatives of the 
two campaigns. Only, the subjects tonight and the questions are mine. 
The format tonight is that of a conversation. The only prevailing 
rule is that no single response can ever, ever exceed two minutes. 
The prevailing rule for the audience here in the hall is as always, 
absolute quiet, please. Good evening Governor Bush, Vice-President 
Gore. In about 90 minutes, last week in Boston, the total time each 
of you took was virtually the same. Lets see if we can do the same 
tonight or come close. Governor Bush, the first question goes to you. 
One of you is about to be elected, the leader of the single most powerful 
nation in the world, economically, financially, militarily, diplomatically, 
you name it. Have you formed any guiding principles for exercising 
this enormous power? I have, I have. First question is what's in the 
best interests of the United States. What's in the best interests 
of our people. When it comes to foreign policy, that will be my guiding 
question. Is it in our nation's interests? Peace in the Middle East 
is in our nation's interests. Having a hemisphere that is free for 
trade and peaceful, is in our nation's interests. Strong relations 
in Europe is in our nation's interests. I have thought a lot about 
what it means to be the President. I also understand that an administration 
is not one person, but an administration is dedicated citizens who 
are called by the President to serve the country, to serve a cause 
greater than self. And, so I have thought about an administration 
of people who represent all America. The people understand by compassionate 
and conservative philosophy. I haven't started naming any names, except 
for one person. That's Mr. Richard Cheney who I thought did a great 
job the other night. He is a vice-Presidential nominee, who represents, 
who, I think people got to see why I picked him. He is a man of solid 
judgment and he is going to be a person to stand by my side. One of 
the things that I've done in Texas is I have been able to put together 
a good team of people. I have been able to set clear goals. The goals 
are to be an education system that leaves no child behind, medicare 
for seniors, a social security system that's safe and secure, foreign 
policy that's in our nation's interest and a strong military. And 
then bring people together to achieve those goals. That's what our 
chief executive officer does. So I have thought long and hard about 
the honor of being the President of the United States. Vice-President 
Gore. Yes Jim, I've thought a lot about that particular question and 
I see our greatest national strength coming from what we stand for 
in the world. I see it as a question of values. It is a great tribute 
to our founders that 224 years later, this nation is now looked to 
by the peoples on every continent and the peoples from every part 
of this earth, as a kind of model for what their future could be. 
And, I don't think that's just the kind of exaggeration that we take 
pride in as Americans, that's really true. Even the one that some 
times shake their fist at us. As soon as they have a change that allows 
the people to speak freely, they're wanting to develop some kind of 
a blueprint that will help them be like us more, freedom, free markets, 
political freedom. So, I think first and foremost, our power ought 
to be wielded in ways that form a more perfect union. The power of 
example is America's greatest power in the world. And that means, 
for example, standing up for human rights. It means addressing the 
problems of injustice and inequity along lines of the race and ethnicity 
here at home, because in all these other places around the world where 
they're having these terrible problems, when they feel hope, it is 
often because they see in us a reflection of their potential. So, 
we've got to enforce our Civil Rights Laws. We've got to deal with 
things like racial profiling. And, we have to keep our military strong. 
We have the strongest military and I'll do what ever is necessary, 
if I'm President to make sure that it stays that way. But, our real 
power comes, I think, from our values. Should the people of the world 
look at the United States, Governor and say, should they fear us, 
should they welcome our involvements? Do they see us as a friend, 
everybody in the world? How do you, how would you project us around 
the world as President? Well, I think they all look at us as a country 
that understands freedom. It doesn't matter who you are or how you're 
raised or where you're from, that you can succeed. I don't think they 
will look at us with envy. It really depends upon how our nation conducts 
itself in foreign policy. If we are an arrogant nation, they will 
resent us. If we are a humble nation, but strong, they will welcome 
us. And our nation stands alone, right now in the world in terms of 
power. And that's why we've got be humble and yet project strength 
in a way that promotes freedom. So, I don't think they look at us 
in anyway other than what we are. We're a freedom-loving nation and 
if we're an arrogant nation, they'll view us that way. But, if we 
are a humble nation, they'll respect us. A humble nation? I agree 
with that. I agree with that. I think, that one of the problems that 
we have faced in the world is that we are so much more powerful than 
any single nation has been in relationship to the rest of the world 
that at any time in history that I know about, anyway, that there 
is some resentment of U.S. power. So, I think that the idea of humility 
is an important one. But, I think that we also have-to-have a sense 
of mission in the world. We have to protect our capacity to push forward 
what America is all about. That means not only military strength and 
our values. It also means keeping our economy strong. You know, in 
the last two decades ago, it was routine for leaders of foreign countries 
to come over here and say "you guys have got to do something about 
these horrendous deficits, because it's causing tremendous problems 
for the rest of the world." And we were lectured to all the time. 
The fact that we have the strongest economy in history today is not 
good enough. We need to do more, but the fact that it is so strong, 
enables us to project the power for good that America can represent. 
Does our wealth, our good economy, our power bring with it special 
obligations to the rest of the world? Yes, it does. Take for example 
third-world debt, I think, we ought be forgiving third-world debt 
under certain conditions. I think for example, if we are convinced 
that a third-world country that has got a lot of debt would reform 
itself, that the money wouldn't go into the hands of a few, but would 
go to help people, then I think it makes sense for us to use our wealth 
in that way. We have already traded debt for valuable rain forest 
lands, makes eminent sense. Yes, we do have an obligation. But, we 
can't be all things to all people. We can help build . We can lend 
money, but we've got to do it wisely. We shouldn't be lending money 
to corrupt officials, so we got to be guarded in our generosity. Let's 
go through some of the specifics now. New question, vice President 
Gore, the governor mentioned Middle East. Here we are talking at this 
stage in the game about diplomatic power that we have. Uh-huh. What 
do you think the United States should do right now to resolve that 
conflict over there. The first priority has to be on ending the violence, 
dampening down the tensions that have risen there. We need to call 
upon Syria to release the three Israeli soldiers who have been captured 
and we need to insist that Arafat send out instructions to halt some 
of the provocative acts of violence that have been going on. I think 
that we also have to keep a weather eye toward the Sadam Hussain, 
because he is taking advantage of the situation to once again make 
threats and he needs to understand that he is not only dealing with 
Israel, he is dealing with us if he is making the kind of threats 
that he is talking about there. The use of diplomacy in this situation 
has already, well it goes hour-by-hour and day-by-day now, it's a 
very tense situation there, but in the last 24 hours there has been 
some subsiding of the violence there. It's too much to hope that this 
is going to continue, but I do hope that it will continue. Our country 
has been very active with the regular conversations with the leaders 
there and we just have to take it day-to-day right now, but one thing 
I would say where diplomacy is concerned, Israel should feel absolutely 
secure about one thing. Our bonds with Israel are larger than agreements 
or disagreements on some details of diplomatic initiatives. They are 
historic, they are strong and they are enduring and our ability to 
serve as an honest broker is something that we need to shapeup. Governor? 
Well, I think during the campaign, particularly now during this difficult 
period we've got to be speaking with one voice and I appreciate the 
way the administration has worked hard to calm the tensions, like 
the Vice President had called on Chairman Arafat to have his people 
pull back to make the peace. I think credibility is going to be very 
important in the future in the Middle East. I want everybody to know 
should I be the President, Israel is going to be our friend and will 
stand by Israel. Secondly, that I think it's important to reach out 
to moderate Arab nations, like Jordan, and Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and 
Kuwait. It's important to be friends with people when you know you 
need each other, so that when you do there is a strong bond of friendship 
and that's going to be particularly important in dealing not only 
with situations such as now occurring in Israel, but with Sadam Hussian. 
The coalition against Sadam has fallen apart, or it's unraveling to 
put it that way. The sanctions are being violated. There is, we don't 
know whether he is developing weapons of mass destruction. He better 
not be or there is going to be a consequence, should I be the President, 
but it's important to have credibility and credibility is formed by 
being strong with your friends and resolute in your determination. 
It's one of the reasons why I think it's important for this nation 
to develop an antiballistic missile system and that we can share with 
our allies in the Middle East if need be to keep the peace, to be 
able to say to the Sadam Hussains of the world or the Iranians "don't 
dare threaten our friends." It's also important to keep strong ties 
in the Middle East, credible ties, because of the energy crisis we're 
now in. After all, all the energy is produced from the Middle East 
and so I appreciate what the administration is doing and I hope you 
get a sense of, should I be fortunate to be the President, how my 
administration will react to Middle East. So, you don't believe, Vice 
President Gore, that we should take sides in this and resolve this 
right now. Lot of people are pushing "hey, we, the United States should 
declare itself and not be so neutral in this particular situation." 
Well, we stand with Israel, but we have maintained the ability to 
serve as an honest broker and one of the reasons that's important 
is that Israel cannot have direct dialogue with some of the people 
on the other side of conflicts especially during times of tension 
unless that dialogue comes through us. And if we throw away that ability 
to serve as an honest broker then we would have thrown away a strategic 
asset that's important not only to us, but also to Israel. You agree 
with that? You are listening to the US Presidential candidates debate, 
live from Winston-Salem, North Carolina on VOA News Now. Discussions 
take place, there has got to be a timetable that all parties can agree 
to, you know, like the Palestinians and Israelis. Secondly, any lasting 
peace is going to have to be a peace that's good for both sides and 
therefore the term "honest broker" makes sense whether this current 
administrations work hard to keep the parties at the table. I would 
try to do the same thing, but it won't be on my timetable. It will 
be on a timetable that people are comfortable with in the Middle East. 
People watching here tonight are very interested in Middle East policy 
and they are so interested that they want to make a, they want to 
base their vote on differences between the two of you as President, 
how you would handle Middle East policy. Is there any difference? 
I haven't heard a big difference right in the last few exchanges. 
Well, I know it's hard to tell. I think that you know I would hope 
to be able to convince people, I could handle the Iraqi situation 
better. With Sadam Hussain, you mean? Yes, and I can . You can get 
him out of there? I'd like to, of course, and I presume this administration 
would as well, but we don't know, there is no inspectors now in Iraq, 
the coalition that was in place isn't as strong as it used to be. 
He is the danger. We don't want him fishing in troubled waters in 
the Middle East, because it's going to be hard to- it's going to be 
important to rebuild that coalition to keep the pressure on him. You 
feel that as the failure of the Clinton administration? i do. Well, 
when I got to be a part of the current administration, it was right 
after I was one of the few members of my political party to support 
former President Bush in the Persian-Gulf war resolution. And at the 
end of that war, for whatever reasons, it was not finished in a way 
that removed Sadam Hussain from power. I know there are all kinds 
of circumstances and explanations, but the fact is that that's the 
situation that was left when I got there and we have maintained the 
sanctions. Now I want to go further, I want to give robust support 
to the groups that are trying to overthrow Sadam Hussain and I know 
their allegations that they are too weak to do it, but that's what 
they said about the forces that were opposing Milosevic in Serbia. 
And, you know, the policy of enforcing sanctions against Serbia has 
just resulted in a spectacular victory for democracy just in the past 
week and it seems to me that having taken so long to see the sanctions 
work there, building upon the policy of containment that was successful 
over a much longer period of time against the former Soviet Union 
in the communist block seems a little early to declare that we should 
give up on the sanctions. I know the governor is not necessarily saying 
that, but you know, all of these flights that have come in, all of 
them have been in accordance with the sanctions regime I am told, 
except for three where they notified and they are trying to break 
out of the box, there is no question about it. I don't think they 
should be allowed to. Did he correct you, did he state your position 
correctly, you are not calling for eliminating the sanctions are you. 
No of course not, absolutely not. I want to be tougher. Let's go on 
to Milosevic and Yugoslavia and it falls into the area of our military 
power, Governor. New question, should the fall of Milosevic be seen 
as a triumph for U.S. military intervention? I think it's a triumph, 
I thought the President made the right decision in joining NATO and 
bombing Serbia. I supported him when they did so, I called upon the 
Congress not to hamstring the administration and in terms of forcing 
troop withdrawals on a timetable that wasn't in necessarily our best 
interests or fit our nation's strategy. Hence I think, it's good public 
policy, I think, it worked and I am pleased I took this - made the 
decision I made, and pleased that the President made the decision 
he made, because freedom took hold in that part of the world and where 
there is a lot of work left to be done, however. But you think it 
would not have happened, do you think that Milosevic would not have 
fallen if the United States and NATO had not intervened militarily? 
Is this a legitimate use of our military power? Yes I think it is, 
absolutely, I don't think he would have fallen had we not used force 
and I know there are some in my party that disagreed with that sentiment, 
but I supported the President, I thought he made the right decision 
to do so. I didn't think he necessarily made the right decision to 
take land troops off the table right before we committed ourselves 
offensively, but nevertheless it worked. The administration deserves 
credit for having made it work. It's important for NATO to have it 
work. It's important for NATO to be strong and confident to help keep 
the peace in Europe and one of the reasons I felt so strongly that 
the United States needed to participate, was because of our relations 
with NATO and NATO is going to be an important part of keeping the 
peace in the future. And there is more work to do, or may as we have 
seen how whether or not it is going to be a political settlement to 
Kosovo and I certainly hope there is one. I have also on record of 
saying at some point time I hope our European friends become the peacekeepers 
in Bosnia and in the Balkans. I hope that they put the troops on the 
ground, so that we can withdraw our troops and focus our military 
on fighting and winning war. Well, I've been kind of a hard liner 
on this issue for more than eight years when I was in the Senate, 
before I became Vice President. I was pushing for stronger action 
against Milosevic, he caused the deaths of so many people, he was 
the last communist party boss there and then he became a dictator, 
that by some other label he was still essentially a communist dictator 
and unfortunately now he is trying to reassert himself in Serbian 
politics already. Just today the members of his political party said 
that they were going to ignore the orders of the new President of 
Serbia and that they questioned his legitimacy and he is still going 
to try to be actively involved. He is an indited war criminal. He 
should be held accountable. Now I did want to pick up on one of the 
statements earlier and maybe I have heard the previous statements 
wrong, governor. I some of the discussions we've had about when it's 
appropriate for the US to use force around the world, at times the 
standards that you've laid down have given me the impression that 
if it's something like a genocide taking place or what they called 
ethnic cleansing in Bosnia, that that wouldn't be the kind of situation 
that would cause you to think that the US ought to get involved with 
troops. Now, there have to be other factors involved for me to want 
to be involved, but by itself that to me, it can bring into play a 
fundamental American strategic interest, because I think it's based 
on our values, now have I got that wrong? All right, sir. Okay, yeah. 
Trying to figure out of what the question was. All right, yeah. If 
I think it's in our nations strategic interest I will commit truce. 
I thought it was in our strategic interests to keep Milosevic in check, 
because of our relations in NATO and that's why I took the position 
I took and I think it's important for NATO to be strong and confident. 
I felt like an unchecked Milosevic would harm NATO and it so depends 
on the situation Mr. Vice President. Well, let's keep for a moment. 
New question related to this, I figured this out, in the last 20 years 
there have been eight major actions involving introduction of US ground, 
air or naval forces. I mean in Lebanon, Grenada, Panama, the Persian, 
Gulf, Somalia, Bosnia, Haiti, Kosovo. If you had been President , 
any of those interventions, would any of those interventions not have 
happened? Can you run through the list again? Sure, Lebanon? I thought 
that was a mistake. Grenada? I support that. Panama? I support them. 
Persian Gulf? Yes I voted for it, supported it. Somalia? Of course 
and that again, no I think that that was ill-considered. I did support 
it at the time, it was in the previous administration, in the Bush-Quaill 
administration and I think in retrospect the lessons there are ones 
that we should take very, very seriously. Bosnia? Oh yes. Haiti? yes. 
And in Kosovo, we talked about that. yes. Want me to do with you? 
no. You want to go, be Lebanon? I'll make it cut short. Absolutely, 
sure. Somalia, started off as a humanitarian mission, then changed 
into a nation building mission and that's where the mission went wrong. 
The mission was changed and as a result our nation paid a price and 
so I don't think our troops ought to be used for what's called nation 
building and our troops are be used to fight and win war. I think 
our troops are be used to help overthrow a dictator when it's in our 
best interest. But in this case, it was a nation building exercise 
and same with Haiti, I wouldn't have supported either. What about 
Lebanon? yes. Grenada? yes. Panama? yes. Obviously the first. Someone 
might get a conflict of interest on, if you know what I mean. i do, 
i do. You are, the Persian Gulf obviously, and Yeah. And Bosnia and 
you've already talked about, about Kosovo, but the reverse side of 
the question, Governor, that vice President Gore mentioned. When 600,000 
people died and in Rwanda 1994, there was no U.S. intervention and 
no intervention from the outside world. Was that a mistake, not to 
intervene? I think the administration did the right thing in that 
case, I do. It was a horrible situation, no one liked to see it on 
our TV screens, but it's a case where we need to make sure we've got 
a you know, a kind of an early warning system in place, in places 
where there could be ethnic cleansing and genocide the way we saw 
there in Rwanda, and that's a case where we need to, you know, use 
our influence to have countries in Africa come together and help deal 
with this situation. Administration last night, but the administration 
made the right decision on training Nigerian troop for situations 
just such as this in Rwanda, and so I thought they made the right 
decision not to send US troops into Rwanda. Do you have any second 
thoughts on that based on what you said a moment ago about genocide? 
I would like to come back to the question of nation building, but 
let me address this question directly first, fine. We did actually 
send troops into Rwanda to help with humanitarian relief measures, 
my wife Tipper who is here actually went on a military plane with 
General Shalikashvili on one of those flights, but I think in retrospect 
we were too late getting in there, we could've saved more lives, if 
we had acted earlier, but I do not think that it was an example of 
a conflict, where we should've put our troops in to try to separate 
the parties for this reason Jim. One of the criteria that I think 
is important in deciding when and if we should ever get involved around 
the world is whether or not our national security interest is involved, 
if we can really make the difference with military force, if we tried 
everything else, if we have allies. In the Balkans we had allies, 
NATO, ready, willing and able to go and carry a big part of the burden. 
In Africa, we did not, now our country has tried to create an Africa 
crisis response team there and we met some resistance. We have had 
somewhat with Nigeria, but in Sierra Leone and that now Nigeria has 
become a democracy we hope it stays that way, then maybe we can build 
on that. But because we had no allies and because it was very unclear 
that we could actually accomplish what we would want to accomplish 
about putting military forces there up, I think it was the right thing 
not to jump in, as heart breaking as it was, but I think we should've 
come in much quicker with the humanitarian mission. So what would 
you say Governor, to somebody who would say "Hey, wait a minute, why 
not Africa, tell me why the Middle East, why the Balkans, but not 
Africa when 600,000 people's lives are at risk? Oh, I understand and 
Africa is important and we got to do lot of work in Africa to promote 
democracy and trade and as Vice President mentioned Nigeria is a fledgling 
democracy, we've to work with Nigeria. It's an important continent, 
but there is got to be priorities and Middle East is a priority for 
a lot of reasons, as is Europe and the Far East in our own hemisphere 
and those are my four top priority, should I be the President, not 
to say we won't be engaged, nor should we work hard to get other nations 
to come together to prevent atrocity, I thought the best example of 
a way to handle a situation as each team, was when we provided logistical 
support to the Australians, support that only we can provide. I thought 
that was a good model, but we can't be all things to all people in 
the world Jim, and I think that's where maybe the Vice President and 
I begin to have differences, I am worried about over committing our 
military around the world, I want to be judicious in its use. You've 
mentioned Haiti. I wouldn't have sent troops to Haiti. I did not think 
it was a mission worthwhile, it was a nation building mission and 
it was not very successful, it cost us billions, couple of billions 
of dollars and I am not so sure democracy is any better off in Haiti 
than it was before. Vice President, would you agree with the Governor's 
views on national building, the use of military ... This is VOA News 
Now from Washington with live coverage of the U.S. Presidential candidates' 
debate from Winston-Salem, North Carolina. And evaluating any potential 
use of American troops overseas. I think we have to be very reticent 
about that. But, look Jim the world is changing and so rapidly the 
way I see it, the world is getting much closer together. Like it or 
not, we are now, the United States is now the natural leader of the 
world. All these other countries are looking to us. Now, just because 
we cannot be involved everywhere and shouldn't be doesn't mean that 
we should shy away both of us are kind of, I guess stating the other's 
position in a maximalistic stream way but I think there is a difference 
here. This idea of nation building is a kind of a pejorative phrase, 
but think about the great conflict of the past century World War-II. 
During the years between World War-I and World War-II, a great lesson 
was learnt by our military leaders and the people of the United States. 
The lesson was that in the aftermath of World War-I, we kind of turned 
our backs and left them to their own devices and they brewed up a 
lot of trouble that quickly became World War-II, and acting upon that 
lesson in the aftermath of our great victory in World War-II, we laid 
down the Marshall plan, President Truman did. All right, we got intermittently 
involved in building NATO and other structures there. We still have 
lots of troops in Europe and what did we do in the late 40s and 50s 
and 60s. We were nation building and it was economic, but it was also 
military and the confidence that those countries, recovering from 
the wounds of war had by having troops that, we had civil administrators 
come in to set up their ways of building their towns back. Yes, but 
you said in the Boston debate Governor on this issue of nation building, 
that the Unites States military is overextended now. Where is it overextended? 
Where are the US military that you would bring home if you become 
President. Well, first let me just say one comment about what the 
Vice-President said. I think one of the lessons in between World War-I 
and World War-II is we let our military atrophy and we can't do that. 
We got to rebuild our military. But, one of the problems we have in 
the military is we're in a lot of places around the world and I mentioned 
one that's the Balkans, I'd very much like to get our troops out of 
there. I recognize we can't do it now, nor do I advocate an immediate 
withdrawal, I think that would be an abrogation of our agreement with 
NATO. No one is suggesting that, but I think it ought to be one of 
our priorities to work with our European friends to convince them 
to put troops on the ground and there is an example, Haiti is another 
example and now there are some places where I think you know, I supported 
the administration in Colombia, I think it's importance for us to 
be training Colombians in that part of the world, it's for hemisphere's 
interest to have a peaceful Colombia, but.. Use of the military. There 
are some people who are now suggesting that if you don't want to use 
the military to maintain the peace to do the simple things, is it 
time to consider a civil force of some kind that comes in after the 
military that builds nation or all of that. Is that on your radar 
screen. I don't think so. I think what we need to do is convince people 
who live in the lands they live in to build the nations. May be I'm 
missing something here, I mean you going to have a nation building 
core from America? Absolutely not, our military is meant to fight 
and win war. That's what it's meant to do and when it gets overextended, 
morale drops and I'm not, Jim I strongly believe we need to have a 
military presence in the Greek Peninsula not only to keep the peace 
in the peninsula but to keep regional stability and I strongly believe 
we need to keep our presence in NATO. But, I'm going to be judicious 
as to how to use the military and these being in our vital interest, 
the mission needs to be clear and the extra strategy obvious. Well, 
I don't disagree with that and I certainly don't disagree that we 
are to get our troops home from places like the Balkans as soon as 
we can, as soon as the mission is complete, that's what we did in 
Haiti. There are no more than a handful of American military personnel 
in Haiti now and Haitians have their problems, but we gave them a 
chance to restore democracy and that's really about all we can do. 
But, if you have a situation like that right in our backyard, with 
chaos about to break out and flotillas forming to come across the 
water and all kinds of violence there, right in one of our neighboring 
countries there, then I think that we did the right thing there and 
as for this idea of nation building, the phrase sounds grandiose and 
you know, we can't be, we can't allow ourselves to get overextended. 
I certainly agree with that and that's why I've supported building 
up our capacity, I have devoted in the budget I've proposed, as I 
said last week, more than twice as much as the Governor has proposed. 
I think that it's in better shape now than he generally does. We've 
had some disagreements about that and he said that two divisions would 
have to report not ready for duty and as that we have to continue 
building up readiness and military strength and we have to also be 
very cautious in the way we use our military. In the non-military 
area of influencing events around the world, the financial and economic 
area, World Bank President Wolfenson said recently, Governor that 
US contributions to overseas development and assistance is lower now 
almost than it has ever been. Is that a problem for you, do you think, 
what is your idea about what the United States' obligations are? I'm 
talking about financial assistance and that sort of thing to other 
countries, the poor countries? Well, I mentioned third world that's 
a place where we can use our generosity to influence in a positive 
way, influence nations. I believe we ought to have foreign aid, but 
I don't think we all just have foreign aid for the sake of foreign 
aid. I think foreign aid needs to be used to encourage markets and 
reform. I think a lot of times we just spend aids and say we just 
would feel better about it, ends up being spent the wrong way and 
there are some pretty egregious examples recently, one being Russia 
where we had IMF loans that end up in the pockets of a lot of powerful 
people and didn't the helped the nation. I think the IMF has got a 
role in the world, but I don't want to see the IMF out there as a 
way to say to world bankers, "if you make a bad loan, we'll bail you 
out". And these have been available for emergency situations. I thought 
the President did the right thing with Mexico and was very strongly 
supportive with the administration in Mexico. But, I don't think the 
IMF ought to be a stop loss for people who aren't be able to evaluate 
risk themselves. So, I look at every place where we are investing 
money. I just want to make sure the return is good. You think we're 
meeting our obligations properly? No, I would make some changes. I 
think there need to be reforms in the IMF. I've generally supported 
it, but I have seen them make some calls that I thought were highly 
questionable and I think that there is the general agreement in many 
parts of the world now that there are to be changes in the IMF. The 
World Bank, I think is generally doing a better job. But, I think 
one of the big issues here that doesn't get nearly enough attention 
is the issue of corruption. The Governor mentioned it earlier, I've 
worked on this issue, it's an enormous problem and corruption in official 
agencies like militaries and police departments around the world, 
customs officials. That's one of the worst forms of it and we have 
got to again lead by example and help these other countries that are 
trying to straighten out their situations, find the tools in order 
to do it. I just think Jim, that this is an absolute unique period 
in world history. The world is coming together as I said, they are 
looking to us and we have a fundamental choice to make. Are we going 
to step up to the play as the nation, the way we did after World War-II. 
The way that generation of heroes said, "okay, the United States is 
going to be the leader", and the world benefited tremendously from 
the courage that they showed in those post war years. I think that 
in the aftermath of the cold war, it's time for us to do something 
very similar to step up to the play to provide the leadership, leadership 
on the environment, leadership to make sure the world economy keeps 
moving in the right direction. Again, that means not running big deficits 
here and not squandering our surplus, that means having intelligent 
decisions that keep our prosperity going and keep in shape that economic 
shrink so that we can provide that leadership role. Let me comment 
on that. Sure. Yeah. I'm not so sure the role of the United States 
is to go around the world and say this is the way it's got to be. 
We can help and maybe it's just our difference in government. The 
way we do government, I mean, I want empower people, I don't, you 
know, I want to help people help themselves not have government tell 
people what to do. I just don't think it's the role of the United 
States to walk into a country say, "we do it way, so should you". 
And, I think we can help, and I know we've got to encourage democracy 
in the market places. You take Russia for example. We went into Russia, 
we said, here sir, I have made money, that ended up in Victor Chernomyrdin's 
pocket and others and yet we played like there is reform. The only 
people who are going to reform Russia are Russians. They are going 
to have to make the decision themselves. Mr. Putin is going to have 
to make the decision as to whether or not he wants to adhere to real 
law and normal accounting practices, so that if countries and or entities 
invest capital, there is a reasonable rate of return, a way to get 
the money out of the economy, but Russia has to make the decision. 
We can work with them on security matters for example, but it's their 
call to make. So, I am not exactly sure where the Vice President is 
coming from, but I think one way for us to end up being viewed as 
the ugly American is for us to go around the world saying, "we do 
it this way, so should you." Now, we trust freedom, we know freedom 
is a powerful force much bigger than the United States of America, 
as we saw recently in the Balkans, but may be I am misunderstanding 
where your are coming from, Mr. Vice-President, but I think the United 
States must be humble and must be proud and confident of our values, 
but humble in how we treat nations that are figuring out how to chart 
their own course. Let's move on. All right, no, lets move on. Far 
be it for me to suggest otherwise. First, a couple of follow-ups from 
the vice Presidential debate last week. Vice-President Gore, would 
you support or sign as President of federal law banning racial profiling 
by police and other authorities at all levels of government. Yes, 
I would. The only thing an executive order can accomplish is to ban 
it in federal law enforcement agencies, but I would also support a 
law in the Congress that would have the effect of doing the same thing. 
I think that racial profiling is a serious problem. I remember when 
the stories first came out about the stops in New Jersey about the 
highway patrol there and I know it's been going on a long time, in 
some ways this is just a new label for something that's been going 
on for years, but I have to confess that it was the first time that 
I've really focussed on it in a new way and I was surprised at the 
extent and I think we now got so many examples around the country 
that we really have to find ways to end this. Imagine, what it is 
like for someone to be singled out unfairly, unjustly, and feel the 
unfair force of law simply because of race or ethnicity. Now, that 
runs counter to what the United States of America is all about at 
our core and it's not an easy problem to solve, but if I am entrusted 
with the presidency, it will be the first civil rights act of the 
21st century. Yeah, I can imagine what it would be like to be singled 
out because of race and stopped and harassed, it's just very wrong 
and that's not what America is all about and so we have to do everything 
we can to end racial profiling. One of my concerns though is I don't 
want to federalize the local police forces, I want to, obviously in 
egregious cases we need to enforce civil rights law, but we need to 
make sure that internal affairs division at the local level do their 
job and be given a chance to do their job. I believe in local control 
of governments and obviously if they don't there needs to be a consequence 
at the federal level, but it's very important that we not overstep 
our bounce and I think, most people, most police officers are good, 
dedicated, honorable citizens who are doing their job, putting their 
lives at risk, who aren't bigoted or aren't prejudiced, I don't think 
they are to be held guilty, but I do think we need to find out where 
racial profiling occurs and do something about it and say to the local 
folks, "get it done and if you can't, there will be federal consequence". 
And that could be a federal law? Yeah. And you agree? I would agree 
and I also agree that most police officers of course, are doing a 
good job and hate this practice also. I talked to an African-American 
police officer in Springfield, Massachusetts not long ago, who raised 
this question and said one of the biggest solutions was in the training 
and not only the training in police procedures, but human relations. 
And I think that racial profiling is part of a larger issue, how we 
deal with race in America and as for singling people out, because 
of race, you know James Bird was singled out because of his race in 
Texas and other Americans have been singled out because of... This 
is VOA News Now, bringing you live coverage of the U.S. Presidential 
candidates' debate from Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Our values 
by passing a hate crimes law. I think these crimes are different. 
I think they are different because they are based on prejudice and 
hatred, which gives rise to crimes that have not just a single victim, 
but they are intended to stigmatize and dehumanize a whole group of 
people. Do you have a different view of that? No, I don't really, 
on hate crimes law, we got one in Texas and guess what, the three 
men who murdered James Bird, guess what's going to happen to them. 
They are going to be put to death. A jury found them guilty and it's 
going to be hard to punish them any worse after they get put to death 
and it is the right cause, so it's the right decision. And secondly, 
there is other forms of racial profiling that goes on in America. 
Arab-Americans are racially profiled on what's called "secret evidence." 
People are stopped and we've got to do something about that. My friend, 
Senator Spencer Abraham, of Michigan is pushing a law to make sure 
that Arab-Americans are treated with respect. So, racial profiling 
isn't just an issue with local police forces, it's an issue throughout 
our society and as we become a diverse society, we're going to have 
to deal with it more and more. I believe, sure as I'm sitting here, 
that most Americans really care, they are tolerant people, a good 
tolerant people. It is the very few that create most of the crises 
and we just have to find them and deal with them. What, if you become 
President, Governor, are there other areas, racial problem areas, 
which you would deal with as President, involving discrimination. 
Sure. As you just said Arab-Americans, but also Hispanics, Asians, 
as well as blacks in this country. Let me tell where the biggest discrimination 
comes, in public education, when we just move children through the 
schools. My friend Phyllis Horners here, she had won the greatest 
lions of all lions. She said reading is the new civil right, and she 
is right, and to make sure our society is as hopeful as it possibly 
can be, every single child in America must be educated, I mean, every 
child. It starts with making sure every child learns to read K through 
two diagnostic testing so we know whether or not there is a deficiency. 
Curriculum that works and phonetics needs to be an integral part of 
our reading curriculum. Tested reading laboratories, teacher re-training, 
and there needs to be a wholesale effort against racial profiling, 
which is their literate children. We can do better in our public schools. 
We can close our achievement gap and it starts with making sure we 
have strong accountability, Jim. One of the cornerstones of reform, 
and good reform, is to measure, because when you measure you can ask 
the question, do they know? Is anybody being profiled? Is anybody 
being discriminated against it? It becomes a tool, a corrective tool, 
and I believe the federal government must say that if you receive 
any money, any money from the federal government for disadvantaged 
children for example, you must show us whether or not the children 
are learning; and if they are, fine and if they are not, there has 
to be a consequence. And so, to make sure we end up, we are getting 
rid of the basic structural prejudice, is education. There is nothing 
more prejudiced than not educating a child. Vice President Gore, what 
would be on your racial discrimination elimination list as President? 
Well, I think we need tough enforcement of the civil rights laws, 
I think we still need affirmative action, I would pass, say hate crimes 
laws, I said and I guess I had misunderstood the Governor's previous 
position, the Bird family may have a misunderstanding of it in Texas 
also, but I would like to shift if I could, to quit the biggest ... 
Hold on one second. What is the misunderstanding? Let's clear this 
out. Well, I had thought that there was a controversy at the end of 
the legislative session where the hate crimes law in Texas was failed 
and that the Bird family among others asked you to support it, the 
Governor, and it died in committee for lack of support, am I wrong 
about that? Well, you don't realize we have a hate crimes statute 
over here? I'm talking about the one that was proposed to deal. What 
the Vice-President must now understand is we've got hate crimes bill 
in Texas, and secondly, the people that murdered Mr. Bird got the 
ultimate punishment, the death penalty. They were prosecuted under 
murder laws, were they not? We'll check this out. Well, in this case, 
when you murder somebody, it's hate, Jim. The crime is hate and they 
got the ultimate punishment. I'm not exactly sure how you'd enhance 
the penalty any more than the death penalty, but we haven't had the 
statute on the books, that hate crime statute in Texas. May I respond? 
Sure. I don't want to jump, you know. I may have been misled by all 
the news reports about this matter, because the law that was proposed 
in Texas, that has the support of the Bird family and a whole lot 
of people in Texas did in fact die in committee. There may be some 
other statute that was already on the books, but certainly the advocates 
of the hate crimes law felt that, a tough new law was needed and it's 
important Jim, not only not just because of Texas, but because this 
mirrors the national controversy. There is pending now in the Congress, 
a national hate crimes law because of James Bird, because of Matthew 
Shephard who was crucified on a split rail fence by bigots, because 
of others and that law has died in committee also because of the same 
kind of opposition. And you would support that? Absolutely. Would 
you support a national hate crimes law? I would support the Owen Hats 
version of it, not the Senator Kennedy version, but let me say to 
you, Mr. Vice President, we are happy with our laws and our books, 
that bill did. There was another bill that did die in committee. But 
I want to repeat, if you have a state that fully supports the law, 
like we do in Texas, we are going to after all crime. And we are going 
to make sure people get punished for the crime and in this case, we 
can't enhance the penalty anymore than putting those three thugs to 
death. And that's what's going to happen in the state of Texas. New 
subject, new question, another vice Presidential debate follow up. 
Governor, both Senator Lieberman and Secretary Cheney said they were 
sympathetically rethinking their views on same sex relationships. 
What's your position on that? I'm not for gay marriage. I think marriage 
is a sacred institution between a man and a woman and I appreciate 
the way the administration signed the Defense of Marriage Act, I presume 
the Vice-President supported when the President signed that bill, 
supports it now. But, I think the marriage is sacred institution and 
will be respectful. For people who may disagree with me, I have had 
a record of doing so in the state of Texas. I have been a person that 
would been called the uniter not divider because I accept other people's 
points of view, but I feel strongly that marriage should be a between 
a man and woman. Vice-President Gore? I agree with that and I did 
support that law. But, I think that we should find a way to allow 
some kind of civic unions and I basically agree with Dick Cheney, 
and Joe Lieberman and I think that three of us have one view, and 
the Governor has another. Is that right? I'm not sure what kind of 
views describe you to me, I will just tell you, I'm a person who respects 
other people. I respect their, I respect, one he says he agrees with 
me and then he says he doesn't, I'm not sure where he is coming from. 
But I will be a tolerant person, I have been a tolerant person all 
my life. I just happen to believe strongly that marriage is between 
a man and woman. Do you believe, in general terms that gays and lesbians 
should have the same rights as other Americans? Yes, I don't think 
they have any special rights but I think they will all have the same 
rights. Well, there is a law pending called the employment non-discrimination 
act. I strongly support it. What it says is that gays and lesbians 
can't be fired from their job because they are gay or lesbian and 
it would be a federal law preventing them. I wonder if that, it's 
been blocked by the opponents in the majority in the Congress, I wonder 
if the Governor would lend a support to that law. question coming 
round here. Well it's logical. Well, I have no idea, I mean you can 
throw all kind. I don't know the particulars of this law. I will tell 
you, I'm the kind of person, I don't hire or fire somebody based upon 
their sex orientation. As a matter of fact, I would like to take the 
issue a little further. I don't really think it's any of my concerns 
about how you conduct your sex life and I think it's a private matter 
and I think that's the way it ought to be. But I am going to be respectful 
for people. I will tolerate people, and I support equal rights, but 
not special rights for people. And special rights, how does that effect 
gays and lesbians? Well, if they're given special protector status 
and that doesn't mean we shouldn't fully enforce laws and fully protect 
people and fully honor people, which I would do as the President of 
the United States. New subject, new question, Vice President Gore. 
How do you see the connection between controlling gun sales in this 
country and the incidents of death by accidental or intentional use 
of guns? Jim, I hope that we can come back to the subject of education, 
because the Governor made an extensive statement on it and I have 
a very different view than the one he expressed, but that having being 
been said, I believe that, well first of all, let me say that the 
Governor and I agree on somethings where this subject is concerned. 
I will not do anything to affect the rights of hunters or sportsmen. 
I think that homeowners have to be respected and the right to have 
a gun if they wish to. The problem, I see is that there are too many 
guns getting into the hands of children and criminals and people who 
for whatever reason are, some kind of history of stalking or domestic 
abuse really should not be able to get guns. I think these assault 
weapons are a problem. So, I favor closing the gun show loophole. 
In fact, I cast the tie-breaking vote to close it, but then the majority 
in the House representatives went the other way, that's still pending. 
If we could get agreement on that, may be they could pass that in 
the final days of this Congress. I think we ought to restore the three-day 
waiting period under the Brady law. I think we should toughen the 
enforcement of Gun laws so that the ones that are already on the books 
can be enforced much more effectively. Some of the restrictions that 
have been placed by the Congress in the last couple of years, I think 
in the last few years, I think have been unfortunate. I think that 
we ought to make all schools gun free, have a gun free zone around 
every school in this country. I think that measures like these are 
important, child safety trigger locks on a mandatory basis and others. 
Governor? Well, it starts with enforcing law and when you say law 
in clearing somebody if you are going to carry a gun illegally, we 
are going to arrest you. If you are going to sell a gun illegally, 
you need to be arrested, and if you commit a crime with a gun, there 
needs to be absolute certainty in the law and that means the local 
law enforcement officials need help at the federal level, the program 
like Project Exile, where the federal government intensifies arresting 
people who illegally use guns and we haven't done a very good job 
of that at the federal recently and I'm going to make it a priority. 
Secondly, I don't think we ought to be selling guns to people who 
shouldn't have them, as well as support instant background checks 
at gun shows. One of the reasons we have an instant background check 
is so that we instantly know whether or not somebody should have gun 
or not. In Texas, I tried to do something innovatively which is that, 
you know there is lot of talk about triggers locks being on guns sold 
in the future, I support that. But, I said, let's review, if you want 
a trigger locked to make your gun safe, come and get one for free 
and so we are distributing in our state of Texas for free. I think 
we ought to raise the age at which youth and all could carry a hand 
gun from 18 to 21. I disagree with the Vice-President on this issue. 
I don't feel need for registration of guns. I think the only people 
who are going to show up to register and get a license, I guess licensing, 
like a driver's license of a gun, the only people who are going to 
show up are law abiding citizens. The criminals are not going to show 
up and say, hey you mean my ID card, it's the law abiding citizens 
who will do that and I don't think that's going to be an effective 
tool to make the - keep our society safe. Right so, on guns. Somebody 
wants to cast a vote, based on your differences, where the differences? 
Well, I'm not for registration. I am for licensing by states of new 
handgun purchases. What does that mean? A photo license ID like a 
driver's license for new hand guns and you know, the Los Angeles was. 
Excuse me, you would have to get the license a photo ID to go in and 
before you could buy the gun. Correct. All right. Who would issue 
that? The state, I think states should do that for new handguns. Because 
too many criminals are getting guns. There was a recent investigation 
of the number in Texas who were given concealed weapons permits in 
spite of the fact that they had records and Los Angeles Times has 
spent a lot of ink going into that. But, I am not for doing anything 
that would affect hunters or sportsmen, rifles, shot guns, existing 
handguns. I do think that sensible gun safety measures are warranted 
now. Look, this is in the aftermath of column buying and peduca and 
all of the places around our country where the nation has been shocked 
by these weapons in the hands of the wrong people. The women who bought 
the guns for the two boys, who did that killing at Columbine, said 
that if she had had to give her name and fill out a form there, she 
would not have bought those guns. That conceivably could have prevented 
that tragedy. Back to the question about the differences on gun control. 
What are they, Governor, from your point view, between you and the 
Vice-President. Well, I'm not for photo licensing, but let me say 
something about Columbine. All right. This is VOA News Now from Washington 
with live coverage of the US.