A U.S. Navy ship in port on the Arabian Peninsula was struck Thursday 
by a small boat in an apparent terrorist act that killed at least 
four Americans and injured at least 30, the Defense Department said. 
Another sailor was missing. The registry of the boat was not immediately 
known, and no one has claimed responsibility, U.S. officials said. 
The destroyer USS Cole, with a crew of about 350 sailors, was in port 
at Aden, Yemen, for refueling when it was rammed and an explosion 
followed, according to Lt. Cmdr. Daren Pelkie, spokesman for the Navy's 
5th Fleet headquarters in Manama, Bahrain. Details of the incident 
were sketchy, but officials at the Pentagon said it appeared that 
the small boat was carrying some form of high-explosive powerful enough 
to rip a large hole in the side of the U.S. ship. President Clinton 
was notified of the incident at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y., by his 
national security adviser, Sandy Berger, said White House spokesman 
Jake Siewert. The president called Defense Secretary William Cohen, 
urging him and Berger to find out what happened. ``He's obviously 
troubled by it,'' Siewert said. ``He wants to know what happened.'' 
Siewert said the incident ``appears to be a terrorist bombing but 
we don't know what happened.'' The president also talked by phone 
with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser 
Arafat. The ship attack came on a day of new violence between Israelis 
and Palestinians. Because the Cole had just arrived in Aden and was 
due to remain there only for four hours to take on fuel, U.S. officials 
said they believed the boat's mission was a planned act of terrorism. 
The ship had transited the Suez Canal on Monday and sailed down the 
Red Sea before arriving in Aden on the Gulf of Aden, Pelkie said. 
U.S. Navy ships commonly stop in Aden for refueling. The region has 
been swept in recent weeks by demonstrations, some of them violent 
and often with an anti-U.S. tone, sparked by Israeli-Palestinian clashes 
in Israel and the Palestinian territories. Pro-Palestinian rallies 
have been held daily in Yemen. Thursday's explosion was heard all 
over Aden and ambulances were seen rushing to the port. The injured 
were removed to local hospitals and the Navy was flying a medical 
team from Bahrain. At about 12:15 p.m. local time, or 5:15 a.m. EDT, 
a U.S. Army major who works at the U.S. Embassy in Aden saw a small 
rubber boat of unknown nationality ram the destroyer, tearing a 20-foot-by-40-foot 
hole in the port side, Pelkie said. The spokesman said that in addition 
to four Americans killed, five were seriously injured and a total 
of 31 suffered some form of injury. He said one American also was 
missing. Flooding aboard the Cole was contained and no fires were 
reported, the spokesman said. The ship was listing four degrees to 
its port side after the explosion. The Cole is a ship of the Burke 
destroyer class and carries sophisticated Aegis weaponry. Its home 
port is Norfolk, Va. It was en route to the Persian Gulf. Yemen is 
on the southern tip of the Arabian Peninsula on the Red Sea. ___ On 
the Net: USS Cole is at http://www.spear/navy.mil/ships/ddg67/