President Clinton urged Israelis and Palestinians to undertake an 
immediate cease-fire after a new outbreak of bloodshed and called 
on both sides to condemn all acts of violence. ``Now is the time to 
stop the bloodshed, to restore calm, to return to dialogue and ultimately 
to the peace process,'' the president said Thursday afternoon in the 
White House Rose Garden. The president spoke after a Palestinian mob 
killed two Israeli soldiers in the West Bank town of Ramallah, and 
Israel retaliated with a rocket attack on Yasser Arafat's residential 
compound, Palestinian police stations and broadcasting centers. ``I 
strongly condemn the murder of Israeli soldiers in Ramallah today,'' 
the president said. ``While I understand the anguish Palestinians 
feel over the losses they have suffered, there can be no possible 
justification for mob violence.'' The two soldiers were the latest 
casualties of two weeks of violence that has left more than 90 people 
dead. ``I call on both sides to undertake a cease-fire immediately, 
and immediately to condemn all acts of violence,'' Clinton said. The 
president went before television cameras after consulting with Secretary 
of State Madeleine Albright and National Security Adviser Sandy Berger. 
``The alternative to the peace process is now no longer merely hypothetical,'' 
Clinton said. ``It is unfolding today before our very eyes.'' The 
Palestinian-Israeli violence was not the only crisis confronting Clinton. 
An apparent suicide bombing in the Middle East tore into a U.S. Navy 
destroyer Thursday, killing four Americans, injuring three dozen and 
leaving 12 missing, the Defense Department said. The attack occurred 
while the ship was docked in the Arabian Peninsula and was being refueled. 
``If, as it now appears, this was an act of terrorism, it was a despicable 
and cowardly act,'' Clinton said. ``We will find out who was responsible 
and hold them accountable. If their intention was to deter us from 
our mission of promoting peace and security in the Middle East, they 
will fail, utterly.'' The twin crises erupted as the president was 
at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y., where he and his wife, Hillary, celebrated 
their 25th wedding anniversary. He returned to Washington late in 
the morning. Clinton talked by telephone with Palestinian leader Yasser 
Arafat after the brutal killings of two Israeli soldiers by a Palestinian 
mob in the West Bank town of Ramallah. Arafat told Clinton that he, 
too, deplores the violence and that Palestinian police had tried to 
protect the Israeli soldiers, National Security Council spokesman 
P.J. Crowley said. Israeli helicopters bombed Arafat's residential 
compound in the Gaza Strip and targets in the West Bank in retaliation 
for the killings. Clinton was trying to reach Israeli Prime Minister 
Ehud Barak, and talked with British Prime Minister Tony Blair and 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan. ``We deplore all loss of life,'' 
Crowley said. ``We are greatly concerned that instances of this kind 
can easily escalate into something even more dangerous. The president 
understands how serious this situation is and we are doing everything 
in our power to prevent a further escalation.'' Shortly after 7 a.m., 
the president was alerted by national security adviser Sandy Berger 
about the explosion on the destroyer USS Cole during a refueling at 
Aden, Yemen. Authorities said a small craft came alongside the ship 
and an explosion followed. In addition to four dead, another 12 sailors 
were missing. ``Obviously given the circumstances, including the eyewitness 
accounts, we are investigating the possibility this was a terrorist 
attack,'' Crowley said. ``We have not reached that conclusion. But 
we are going to do everything in our power to learn what transpired 
here.'' He said the FBI was sending in agents, and the Pentagon was 
dispatching an anti-terrorism team from the region. ``I think we have 
to let the facts catch up with the conclusions that many have already 
drawn this morning,'' Crowley said when asked if it was a terrorist 
attack. ``What we know is there was a massive explosion aboard the 
ship. It had been in port only for a few hours. It was going through 
a refueling. But beyond that, we have to investigate it first.''