An apparent suicide terrorist bombing tore into a U.S. Navy destroyer 
Thursday, killing four Americans, injuring three dozen and leaving 
12 missing, the Defense Department said. Authorities said the explosion 
was triggered by a small boat that had pulled alongside the ship as 
it was docked in the Arabian Peninsula. President Clinton said the 
attack on the USS Cole appeared to be an act of terrorism. ``We will 
find out who was responsible and hold them accountable,'' he pledged. 
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack, U.S. officials said. 
Calling the attack a ``despicable and cowardly act,'' Clinton told 
reporters at the White House that he had ordered all Navy ships in 
the region to pull out of port as a safety precaution and a heightened 
state of alert at U.S. military bases. He had a message for those 
responsible for the attack: ``If their intention was to deter us from 
our mission of promoting peace and security in the Middle East, they 
will fail utterly.'' The president said he had dispatched investigators 
from the State Department, the Pentagon and the FBI to Yemen. He said 
Yemen had pledged its cooperation. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright 
talked earlier in the day with Ali Abdallah Saleh, the president of 
Yemen, who visited the injured in the hospital. The Cole, with a crew 
of about 350, was in port at Aden, Yemen, for refueling when a small 
craft came alongside and an explosion followed, according to Lt. Cmdr. 
Daren Pelkie, spokesman for the Navy's 5th Fleet headquarters in Manama, 
Bahrain. At a State Department news conference, Albright said this 
is no time for the United States to ``retreat from our responsibilities'' 
in the region. ``We are operating in a world that is filled with a 
variety of threats. But that doesn't mean that we can crawl into an 
ostrichlike mode. We are eagles,'' Albright said. Details of the incident 
were sketchy, but officials at the Pentagon said it appeared that 
the small boat was carrying some form of high explosive powerful enough 
to rip a large hole _ 20 feet by 40 feet _ in the side of the 505-foot 
long, 8,600-ton U.S. ship. The destroyer is built of steel and fortified 
with 70 tons of armor. The boat was of the kind used in normal harbor 
operations in the port of Aden, according to a Pentagon official familiar 
with official reports from the scene. The official, who discussed 
the matter on condition of anonymity, said the boat's crew had helped 
secure the Cole's mooring lines at the fueling dock before it came 
alongside the ship. As a result, officials said, its presence near 
the Cole did not raise suspicions. Two men were seen standing in the 
small boat before the explosion, the official said. He said there 
was no doubt the explosion came from the small boat but it was not 
clear whether the boat rammed the ship. Sen. John Warner, R-Va., chairman 
of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said the attacking craft was 
not ``put together in a garage overnight. There had to be careful 
planning.'' He said female sailors were among the casualties. It appeared 
to be the first attack against a U.S. Navy ship since 1991, when the 
USS LaSalle, a 14,650-ton command ship, was fired on with automatic 
weapons from two unidentified craft while deployed in the Persian 
Gulf. Pelkie said at least 36 sailors were reported injured in the 
attack Thursday and 12 were missing, in addition to four confirmed 
dead. The injured were taken to a local hospital and U.S. Navy medical 
teams were dispatched to the scene from Bahrain. Flooding on the ship 
was reported to be contained and there were no reports of fire. The 
explosion ``was so loud I thought it was from inside the hotel. The 
windows in 21 of our 33 rooms were shattered, and many of the television 
sets fell and broke,'' said Ahmed Mohammed Al-Naderi, manager of the 
port-side Rock Hotel. ``Thank God, none of the guests or hotel personnel 
were injured.'' Al-Naderi said he could see the Cole from his hotel. 
``It has a big hole in it. ... There are some people on board, and 
some small boats around it.'' Clinton was notified of the incident 
by his national security adviser, Sandy Berger, said White House spokesman 
Jake Siewert. The president called Defense Secretary William Cohen, 
urging him and Berger to find out what happened. At the Justice Department, 
Attorney General Janet Reno declined to comment on a possible terrorist 
link. She said FBI agents in the region have been sent to the scene 
and that the bureau was putting together investigators, explosives 
experts and an evidence response team to send as well. The nearest 
FBI legal attaches are stationed in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Almost all 
the agents assigned to go to Yemen have been to the Middle East before 
to investigate one or both of two previous terrorist attacks: the 
1996 truck bomb attack that killed 19 U.S. airmen at the Khobar Towers 
apartments in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, and the 1998 bombings of the 
U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, that killed 224 people including 
12 Americans. Asked if consideration is being given to a worldwide 
terrorist alert at U.S. installations, she said, ``That is an issue 
that is being addressed.'' Because the Cole had just arrived in Aden 
and was due to remain there only for four hours to take on fuel, U.S. 
officials said they believed the boat's mission was a planned act 
of terrorism. The ship had passed through the Suez Canal on Monday 
and sailed down the Red Sea before arriving in Aden on the Gulf of 
Aden, Pelkie said. U.S. Navy ships commonly stop in Aden for refueling. 
The region has been swept in recent days by demonstrations, some of 
them violent and often with an anti-U.S. tone, sparked by Israeli-Palestinian 
clashes in Israel and the Palestinian territories. Pro-Palestinian 
rallies have been held daily in Yemen. William Arkin, a military expert 
who specializes in Gulf affairs, said Yemen became a more frequent 
refueling stop for Navy ships following a December 1997 U.S. government 
policy decision to open up contacts and cooperation with the country. 
At about 12:15 p.m. local time, or 5:15 a.m. EDT, a U.S. Army major 
who works at the U.S. Embassy in Aden saw a small rubber boat of unknown 
nationality ram the destroyer's port side, Pelkie said. Flooding aboard 
the Cole was contained and no fires were reported, the spokesman said. 
The ship was listing four degrees to its port side after the explosion. 
The Cole is a ship of the Burke destroyer class and carries sophisticated 
Aegis weaponry. Its home port is Norfolk, Va. It was en route to the 
Persian Gulf. The destroyer was commissioned in June 1996 and is named 
after Marine Sgt. Darrell Cole, who was awarded the Medal of Honor 
for heroism during the battle of Iwo Jima in 1945. ___ On the Net: 
USS Cole is at http://www.spear.navy.mil/ships/ddg67/ NO PICKUP