we begin with the attack on the "uss cole" with nbc's jim miklaszewski 
at the pentagon. jim, what's the latest there? tonight, the latest 
casualty figures are 6 dead, 11 missing and 36 wounded. but navy officials 
predict that death toll will surely rise in what is the worst terrorist 
attack against a u.s. navy ship in modern history. the gaping, blackened 
hole in the side of the "uss cole" is all the evidence the navy's 
top officer needs to declare this a terrorist attack. i have no reason 
to think that this was anything but a senseless act of terrorism. 
the destroyer, one of the most powerful ships in the u.s. navy, is 
on its way to the persian gulf when it stops at yemen to take on fuel. 
yemen is considered a high threat area. the crew is already on a heightened 
state of alert. so then, how did the attackers get so close? navy 
officials report the "cole" pulls up to an offshore pier in the middle 
of aden harbor, preparing to refuel. one of the small harbor boats, 
hired by the u.s. to help moor the destroyer, takes one of the ship's 
lines, ties it to a buoy, then returns. it's normally a routine operation, 
so no one aboard the "cole" has the slightest suspicion the ship is 
about to be attacked. two men aboard the small boat suddenly snap 
to attention as if following orders. then, the blast -- an enormous 
explosion that tears a huge gash in the side of the ship. seawater 
rushes through the 20 x 40-foot hole. the crew fights desperately 
to save the ship. they have performed superbly. they dispatch medical 
teams. the 11 miss rg presumed trapped. in congress tonight, outrage 
and a warning to those responsible. we will find you. we will punish 
you. and the price that we will exact will be far exceed anything 
you may have gained by inflicting this outrageous act of terrorism. 
how may i help you? a vigil for the dead and survivors. i talked to 
the two om buds man. they want to pass along to have everybody say 
a prayer. a new concern tonight. two navy ships are steaming to the 
area to provide security. because the "cole" is in a high-threat area, 
it is loaded with cruise missiles and sitting dead in the water. thanks 
, jim miklaszeski.