yemen has been a dangerous place for a long time, but the boldness 
and destructiveness of this attack stunned almost everyone. who could 
be responsible? nbc's andrea mitchell tonight on the terrorist watch. 
tonight, the question for u.s. terrorist hunters -- who could have 
pulled off such a well-timed attack? intelligence officials tell nbc 
news this may be an inside job, planned for six months or longer, 
with informers from yemen's government or the port alerting terrorists 
to the "cole's" refueling schedule. if, as it now appears, this was 
an act of terrorism, it was a despicable and cowardly act. we will 
find out who was responsible and hold them accountable. but how to 
find the terrorists? investigators on the scene already look for clues. 
we're conducting a joint forensic investigation of the explosion, 
as we do in all these cases, in a very detailed, methodical and professional 
manner. and we should have concrete results shortly. officials say 
no specific warning of today's bombing, but a few days ago, intelligence 
that something might happen in yemen -- officials say, a dangerous 
country, until ten years ago, on the u.s. list of terrorist nations. 
but this year, its president visits the white house. still, terror 
groups roam freely there. no one knows. first, osama bin laden, based 
in afghanistan, but with family roots in yemen, sent terrorist trainers 
there. but officials say no evidence yet he is involved. second, egyptian 
islamic jihad assassinated anwar sadat in 1981, killed tourists in 
egypt in 1997 -- loosely aligned with bin laden, but officials say 
could operate on its own. or u.s. officials suspect hezbollah -- blew 
up the marine barracks in lebanon in 1983, only last week kidnapped 
three israeli soldiers in lebanon. or hamas, responsible for suicide 
bombings in israel. and possibly the palestine islamic jihad, also 
with a cell in yemen. certainly it's an attack that requires some 
planning. it's not something that was laid on overnight. what is the 
motive? experts say it could be triggered by anger at the u.s. over 
recent violence in the middle east. if the suspects are identified, 
what would the u.s. do next? i would certainly hope that we would 
retaliate if we have good intelligence as to where it came from. last 
time there was a terror attack against the u.s. -- the embassy bombings 
in africa two years ago -- the president did retaliate, on what critics 
called sketchy evidence. still, officials say if there is any way 
to track the culprits, he will do the same thing again. andrea mitchell, 
nbc news, washington.