In worry and uncertainty, more than 100 spouses and children waited 
together through the day on Thursday at the Norfolk Naval Base for 
some official word on precisely who perished and who survived in the 
terrorist attack upon the destroyer Cole. ``There are some people 
very quiet, some people very upset, but everybody is just waiting,'' 
said Catherine M. Stokoe, director of the base's family service center, 
as the anxious vigil continued hours after the lethal attack. The 
Navy emphasized it was taking time to carefully prepare the casualty 
tally to avoid the release of painful misinformation. Thus, the family 
members waited together, not knowing who ultimately would be most 
stricken by the news of the tragedy in which at least four service 
members based here were killed. The base itself was tightly battened 
down to most visitors under what was described as a ``Threat Con Alpha'' 
state of heightened security. Navy officials said this extra level 
of caution was ordered for all coastal bases after the Cole was attacked. 
``Oh Lord, this is going to bring on a lot of fear around here,'' 
said Catherine Thompson, a 31-year-old mother of four whose husband, 
Michael, is about to ship out for the Middle East as a cook aboard 
the aircraft carrier Harry S. Truman. ``Just his going away can scare 
you, depress you,'' said Catherine Thompson, speaking on a street 
of suburban quietude lined with new off-post homes. ``But this terrible 
thing makes you think it's like going to war.'' Across the street, 
Sylvester Robinson, a Navy man assigned to guard duty at the base 
brig in the final months of his 20-year career, warily tracked the 
tragedy at mid-day as he polished his car. ``They're still looking 
for 12 others,'' he said. ``This is upsetting. I mean, it could be 
someone I know here in the community. This story is not complete on 
that and on who is responsible. It can get people hysterical.'' By 
all accounts, the large Navy community long rooted in this Hampton 
Roads hub instantly began rallying around family members of the crew 
as soon as the Cole was identified in morning news bulletins. ``We're 
Navy and it's hard for an outsider to see, but this community comes 
together at a moment like this,'' said Carlton Burch, a retired sailor. 
He and his friend John Van Ness, another Navy veteran, debated from 
experience the relative security risks of being in port or on the 
high seas in the course of Middle East duty. ``I don't know, but in 
port, on liberty, there always seemed a chance to get up close,'' 
Burch said as the two waited as volunteers at the Christian Service 
Center on Hampton Blvd., a drop-in spiritual shelter for visiting 
military personnel. ``Yeah, but out at sea you had to be alert for 
aircraft and missiles over there,'' said Van Ness, who was reminded 
by the Cole attack of one of his old Navy jobs, notifying the next 
of kin when a service member died. ``Imagine what it's like over there,'' 
he said, peering across the boulevard toward the tightly secured base. 
The rotation of Navy crews to and from their world deployments is 
a seasonal spectacle here. Crew members bound ashore to families waiting 
on the piers while others bid goodbye in sadder tableaux. Word of 
the Cole tragedy came as community leaders were preparing for the 
annual Fleet Week celebrations. They were to begin this weekend with 
the dedication here in Town Point Park of a 7-foot sculpture, ``The 
Homecoming.'' It depicts a young family exulting at being re-united 
after a long tour of sea duty, the sailor and his wife hugging tightly 
and their small son, in turn, embracing them both. The outward signs 
of Navy-town routine were largely unchanged as residents tracked the 
frightening news through the day. Shoppers packed the post retail 
exchanges; golfers practiced shots on a driving range bordering the 
base. But at one point, dock visitors could see a destroyer flag quietly 
lowered to half staff in honor of lost mates on the Cole. Outside 
the tightly secured base, a score of TV news antenna trucks remained 
on the prowl, awaiting word on the casualties and their families. 
``We're seeing a lot of sad people around here,'' said Michelle Carr 
at the Triple A car insurance agency which serves Navy families. ``Wives 
are getting their husbands ready to go out on deployment next month, 
and now they have to deal with this.'' Thompson, one of those wives, 
firmly emphasized one saving grace, seen in the resilience of her 
friends who are Navy wives, the professional counselors always ready 
to help stricken base families, or the extensive e-mail network that 
allows families to communicate directly with relatives at sea. ``This 
community is Navy,'' she said. ``The Navy is always there for us.''