In what may have been a ripple effect of the Middle East crisis, an 
explosion today killed at least four sailors on a US Navy destroyer 
in the Yemeni port of Aden. American investigators are going to the 
scene but in Washington at the White House, the Pentagon and the State 
Department, US officials are already expressing suspicions that today's 
explosion was an act of terrorism. The World's Clark Boyd reports. 
The blast, which occurred just after noon local time in Yemen, ripped 
a 20 x 40 foot gash in the USS Cole, a state-of-the art destroyer 
that had stopped in Aden to refuel before joining the carrier George 
Washington in the Persian Gulf. Speaking at the Cole's home base in 
Norfolk, Virginia, Admiral John Foley said that the navy is investigating 
the incident. I don't know whether it was terrorism or not. It was 
an act of certainly a severe belligerence but we don't know the source, 
nor can I comment any further on that. But in Washington, Pentagon 
officials went further saying that they had every reason to suspect 
that the blast was caused by terrorists. The officials said that reports 
from the scene, including one from an army officer working in Aden 
harbor, suggested that a small rubber craft that was helping the Cole 
dock came alongside the destroyer and caused the blast. Many, including 
retired Admiral Eugene Carroll, are suspicious that the small boat 
may have been loaded with high-power explosives and that the attack 
was planned. That craft that approached the Cole is a rubber boat, 
not a big craft, but they would have had to pack it fully with explosives 
to do the amount of damage that they did to the Cole and that certainly 
would have taken time to get that put together. While both the Pentagon 
and the Justice Department today dispatched teams of experts to Yemen 
to investigate the explosion, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright 
urged caution saying it was too early to jump to any conclusions. 
Still, she promised that the United States would take appropriate 
action if terrorists were found to be behind the blast, a sentiment 
echoed later in the day by President Clinton. If, as it now appears, 
this was an act of terrorism, it was a despicable and cowardly act. 
We will find out who is responsible and hold them accountable. If 
their intention was to deter us from our mission of promoting peace 
and security in the Middle East, they will fail utterly. For some 
terrorism experts today's attack, which occurred against the backdrop 
of intense clashes between Palestinians and Israelis in the Middle 
East, has an eerily familiar ring to it. Bruce Hoffman is the Director 
of the Rand Corporation's Washington office. We have seen often in 
the past how violence and conflict and tensions in the Middle East 
often embroil the United States, one only has to recall the bombing 
of the US Marine barracks in Lebanon in 1983. Also a month before 
Presidential election, also at a time when Israel was involving suitable 
ferment at that point in Lebanon now with the Palestinians, where 
the United States was also attempting actively to provide some stabilizing 
influence and unfortunately and tragically got caught up in the maelstrom 
and that seems to be the salient fact of this attack. And if this 
attack turns out to be the work of terrorists, Hoffman says it would 
signal a dangerous new trend. Maritime or marine-borne terrorist attacks 
are actually quite rare. That being said it could well be the beginning 
of a new pattern. We have made it far more difficult, appropriately 
so, for terrorists to attack our ground forces in the Arabian Peninsula. 
So, I think terrorists prevented from attacking their targets using 
their more conventional means 'truck bombs' have merely adjusted their 
tactics slightly and obviously they have been successful with it today. 
On Yemeni TV today the country's President expressed his heart-felt 
condolences to those who were killed and injured, but denied that 
the explosion on board the Cole was caused by terrorists. Although, 
admits Mohammed al-Qadhi, editor of the Yemen Observer newspaper in 
the capital Sana, anti-American sentiment has been running high in 
Yemen because of events in the Middle East. The people now in the 
streets are gathering because they feel that not just as Arabs, as 
human beings, that what is happening in Palestine is not humanitarian. 
Regarding the United States attitude in this regard, we find that 
the United States until now are supporting Israel. The people here 
feel that United States should do something. With tensions running 
high throughout the Middle East, today's incident off the coast of 
Yemen serves as a warning. US armed forces and diplomatic personnel 
might be on high alert for sometime to come. For The World this is 
Clark Boyd.