before we speak with general schwarzkopf this evening, we go to the 
pentagon to the latest with jim miklaszewski. the latest death toll 
from that terrorist bombing attack tonight, six dead, 35 injured. 
but with 11 still missing, navy officials say that death toll is surely 
to rise. in what has been the best planned worst terrorist attack 
against a u.s. navy ship in modern history. the gaping blackened hole 
in the side of the u.s.s. cole is all the evidence the navy's top 
officer needs to declare this a terrorist attack. i have no reason 
to think this was anything but a senseless act of terrorism. the destroyer, 
one of the most powerful ships in the u.s. navy, is on its way to 
the persian gulf when it stops at yemen to take on fuel. yemen is 
considered a high-threat area. the crew is already on a heightened 
state of alert. so how then did the attackers get so close? navy officials 
report the cole pulls up to a pier in the middle of aden harbor. one 
of the small harbor boats hired by the u.s. to help moor the destroyer 
takes one of the ship's lines, ties it to a buoy, then returns. it's 
normally a routine operation. the crew on the cole doesn't have the 
slightest suspicion the ship is about to be eyewitnesses say two men 
aboard the small boat suddenly snapped to attention as if following 
orders, then the blast. an enormous explosion that tears a huge gash 
in the side of the ship. seawater rushes through the 20 by 40-foot 
hole, the crew fights desperately to save the ship. they have performed 
superbly. the injured are rushed to a yemen hospital. the navy dispatches 
more medical teams to the scene. the 11 missing are presumed trapped 
in the flooded had hull. in congress tonight, outrage and a warning 
to those responsible. we will find you, we will punish you, and the 
price that we will exact will be far exceeding anything you may have 
gained by inflicting this outrageous act of terrorism. in norfolk, 
the cole's home port, a vigil for the dead and survivors. i talked 
to the two only budsmen for that ship, and they wanted to pass along 
for everybody to say a prayer. tonight, all u.s. military forces are 
on a heightened state of alert. all u.s. navy ships around the world 
have been ordered out of port put out to sea to prevent a possible 
followup attack against any u.s. navy ships. there's one additional 
concern about the cole itself. two u.s. navy ships are steaming at 
flank speed toward that region tonight because the cole still sits 
in a high-threat area. it's loaded with cruise missiles, and it's 
sitting dead in the water. brian? jim miklaszewski with that, thanks. 
this extra note tonight -- one u.s. official saying this may be the 
best planned out, best prepared, best executed terrorist attack we 
have ever seen.