the u.s. navy has, as of tonight, 101 ships at sea in the water. one 
of them is dead in the water tonight, its first deck flooded by a 
20 foot by 40-foot hole, a bomb having blown a hole in the side of 
the hull. it is the destroyer u.s.s. cole. we are joined now by the 
military commander of the persian gulf war, retired general h. norman 
schwarzkopf. general, good evening to you. good to see you again. 
good evening, brian. the ship was, after all, headed to persian gulf 
duty, something you're very familiar with. do you regard this as a 
wake-up call to all americans, all american servicemen and women that 
this is still a very dangerous area of the world? well, i think we 
need to remind ourselves, you have the towers not too long ago that 
killed an awful lot of airmen. you had beirut, which killed marines, 
and now you have this incident. what does it all add up to you? well, 
it just adds up to the fact that there are people out there who hate 
the united states of the america, who have vowed to do something about 
it, and are completely capable of a major, destructive act. in our 
last hour, the general admitted it's nothing less than human nature 
to get complacent. this was a mission like any other refueling stop 
this ship has ever done since it had its maiden voyage. and yet security 
was heightened. there was a certain level of terrorist alert, and 
yet this still happened. yeah, i really -- you know, i guess you could 
say that the smartest thing that could have been done was not go there 
in the first place. but having said that, the fact that they were 
only going to be there for four hours, the fact that they did have 
sailors on alert with weapons along the side of the ship, i've got 
to tell you, you can just imagine when the sailors were there and 
all of a sudden that small boat turned straight ahead to the destroyer, 
somebody had to make a decision to open fire if they really thought 
it was that kind of threat, and that's a very tough decision for a 
young sailor to make. a tough decision, and it's been pointed out 
these local tenders are absolutely vital. you can't stop, dock and 
refuel, tie it up to the buoys without them. and the boats themselves, 
even the faces on the men sometimes become familiar, and they have 
apparently, the terrorists, if the scenario is to be believed, apparently 
infiltrated the ranks of the port authority boat pilots there, so 
they might have been familiar to the men and women on the ship. yeah, 
well, you know, the government was just informed 10 or 12 days ago 
that the ship was coming in. other than that, nobody was informed 
of it, so obviously there was a leak from the government somewhere 
that brought this about. and oh, by the way, not only are the tenders 
familiar, but there's a lot of them in ports. there always are. how 
-- do you concur with the assessment of the one senior official we 
quoted not long ago in the broadcast, this was perhaps the best prepared, 
best laid-out terrorist attack we've ever seen? well, you know, it's 
hard to compare the planning and how well something was laid out. 
obviously they were waiting for us, given the limited amount of time 
the ship was going to be there, so obviously they were waiting for 
the ship to come in. there's been a lot of other terrible terrorist 
activities. beirut, bombing for one, which is probably the worst of 
all, so i wouldn't say this is the best of anything. it's just one 
of the worst. general, how do you go about -- let's say the terrorist 
cell is isolated in the next few days and we get some positive evidence 
about who's responsible for this. what kind of calculus goes into 
deciding the right response militarily? well, that's a good question. 
you know, a great deal -- first of all, it's very, very tough in a 
short time span to figure out who did this sort of thing. there's 
going to be a lot of groups claiming credit for it. whether they did 
it or not is another question entirely, and then once you pin down 
who did it, the question is where are they located? are they in a 
country that's friendly to us? are they in a country that's an enemy 
of ours snow how do we get to them? are they isolated? if they are, 
what's the best way to get at them? is it an air strike or special 
forces operation over the ground? you lit tale have to, number one, 
figure out who did it, then number two, where they are, number three, 
how vulnerable they are, and then, number four, what's the best course 
of action to take. it's not easy. and that fourth choice can be the 
most grim. do you take out some sort of asset, a piece of real estate, 
a ship, a plane, or do you intentionally go about taking lives? i 
think that the truth of the matter is anything short of a direct attack 
on their lives is not going to make very much difference to them whatsoever. 
all it will do, if you take out some facility, you know, that belongs 
to another government, that just gives them one more reason to go 
after you. norman schwarzkopf, thank you very much for being with 
us tonight. good to see you again. nice to see you, brian.