there is late word tonight that a local yemeni group is now publicly 
claiming responsibility for the attack on the u.s.s. cole that so 
far has killed at least six sailors. u.s. investigators are looking 
into the claim, and they caution this kind of thing happens. there 
may be several more claims in the next couple of days, but already 
several prime suspects may be emerging as well. nbc news correspondent 
andrea mitchell has the latest. tonight, the question for u.s. terrorist 
hunters -- who could have pulled off such a well-timed attack? intelligence 
officials tell nbc news this may be an inside job. planned for six 
months or longer, with informers from yemen's government or the port, 
alerting terrorists to the cole's refueling schedule. if, as it now 
appears, this was an act of terrorism, it was a despicable and cowardly 
act. we will find out who was responsible and hold them accountable. 
but how to find the terrorists? f.b.i. investigators on the scene 
already look for clues. we're conducting a joint forensic investigation 
of the explosion as we do in all of these cases in a very detailed, 
methodical and professional manner, and we should have concrete results 
shortly. officials say no specific warning of today's bombing, but 
a few days ago, intelligence that something might happen in yemen. 
officials say a dangerous country until 10 years ago on the u.s. list 
of terrorists nations. but this year, its president visits the white 
house. still, the state department says terror groups roam freely 
there. who are the suspects? no one knows. but first, osama bin laden 
sent terrorist training trainers to yemen, but officials say no evidence 
yet he is involved. second, the egyptian islamic jihad killed terrorists 
in 1997, loosely assigned with bin laden. or u.s. officials say hezbollah, 
blew up the marine baraks in lebanon in 1983. only last week kidnapped 
three israeli soldiers. or hamas, responsible for suicide bombings 
in israel. and also the jihad. certainly it's an attack that required 
some planning. it wasn't laid on overnight. what is the motive? experts 
say it could be anger at the u.s. over recent violence in the middle 
east. if the suspects are identified, what will the u.s. do next? 
i would certainly hope that we will retaliate if we have good intelligence 
as to where this came from. last time there was a terror attack against 
the u.s., the embassy bombings in africa two years ago, the president 
did retaliate, even though critics said there was sketchy evidence. 
but still, officials say if he finds the culprits this time, he will 
do the same thing again. andrea mitchell, nbc news, washington. we 
are joined now by former c.i.a. director james woolsey, with us from 
our washington bureau tonight. mr. woolsey, i'd like to start you 
off where you'd like to begin on this, perhaps the threat of terrorism 
in yemen, perhaps the claim of responsibility tonight. yemen is a 
lawless place, and most any of the groups that andrea mitchell talked 
about could have been involved, but there's another that we ought 
to consider, which is the possibility that there is some government 
activity behind this. for example, from iraq. the lead f.b.i. agent, 
now unfortunately deceased in new york city for the world trade center 
investigation, who ran the investigation up there, always thought 
that saddam hussein was behind the world trade center operation. and 
so there's a real propensity for terrorist groups or governments behind 
terrorist operations to run so-called false flag operations where 
there's deception as to who is involved. and i think we need to keep 
an open mind. this may be one of these quasi independent terrorist 
organizations, but conceivably there could be a government back there 
somewhere. mr. woolsey, i don't know how much was spent on u.s. intelligence 
last year. i know it's a lot of money, and i know a lot of that money 
was spent in the region we're talking about here tonight. how good 
are the united states' contacts? how much do we know? obviously in 
this case, not to be flipped, not enough. well, certainly not enough 
to have stopped this, and that's a great tragedy, especially for those 
who lost their lives with families. american intelligence in the mideast 
on the whole is pretty good, much of it derives from close working 
relationships with friendly intelligent services in the area and friendly 
states. some of the most high-tech intelligence is not directly relevant 
to something like this. for example, photo reconnaissance satellites 
or many types of communications intercepts, and those are the really 
expensive parts of american intelligence. penetrating terrorist groups, 
it kind of comes down to having spies, and that's hard and very difficult 
work in the region. and to the very nitty-gritty business of tracking 
a case, any case, it's awfully nice when you can get someone very 
basically at the street level to tell. how often does that happen 
in that region? it happens from time to time, but the c.i.a. has operated 
for a few years under some restrictions, some guidelines that discourage. 
they don't prevent. but they do discourage the recruitment inside 
terrorist organizations of people, for example, who may have been 
guilty of human rights violations in the past. well, you know, if 
you're recruiting someone inside a government, often you get a good 
person inside a bad government that's willing to work for the united 
states, because they're had sympathetic with democracy. but if you're 
talking about being inside a terrorist group, the only people in there 
are terrorists, so you're going to have to pay money or otherwise 
do something to get information from some pretty unsavory people if 
you want to be successful. do you agree that it doesn't too long, 
months, years, of easy military operations in the red sea through 
the canal to breed complacency, no matter what the terrorist threat 
may be? it's possible, but i was once undersecretary of the navy, 
and listening to what was going on here, they were only going to be 
in port for four hours. sailors were armed and standing there ready 
to shoot if something suspicious happened. but this was a tug apparently 
that was part of the docking operation for the fueling. and it would 
have been very, very difficult, even with good intelligence and even 
with very alert people to have stopped something like this. former 
director of central intelligence james woolsey, thank you very much 
for being with us tonight.