Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush each demanded Thursday 
that anyone who attacked an American Navy destroyer in Yemen be held 
accountable, as intensifying conflict in Israel and the Palestinian 
lands placed foreign policy at the center of the presidential race. 
The candidates, in separate campaign appearances, also called for 
Yasser Arafat to take a lead in ending the cycle of violence, which 
accelerated Thursday when Israeli helicopters struck Palestinian targets 
in retaliation for the killing of two Israeli soldiers on the West 
Bank. Gore canceled several interviews to return to Washington and 
Bush said it was a moment when America's leaders should ``speak with 
one voice.'' Gore said the Palestinian leader, Arafat, should ``issue 
instructions to those who have been perpetrating this violence to 
case and desist,'' adding, ``It is a time to start building again 
on the relative progress of the previous two days _ and that can still 
be done _ to end the violence and damp down the tensions'' in order 
to restart the Middle East peace process. Bush, the Republican nominee, 
put his support behind the Clinton administration. ``It's time for 
our nation to speak with one voice,'' he told reporters in Winston-Salem, 
N.C. ``I appreciate the administration's efforts to bring calm to 
that troubled part of the world.'' He said Arafat ``must stand up 
and call upon the people he represents to put down their rocks and 
arms.'' ``It's time for him to be a statesman,'' Bush added. With 
less than four weeks left before Election Day, the presidential race 
seems to be closest in decades, and international affairs have generally 
been on the back burner during a time marked by prosperity. But the 
second presidential debate, on Tuesday night, focused largely on foreign 
policy. And Thursday's violence in Israel and the Palestinian lands 
and the attack on the Navy warship in Yemen put international affairs 
at center stage. In their debate, Bush and Gore to a large extent 
agreed on the nation's approach to the Middle East and the Balkans 
but differed over when they would commit troops overseas and what 
kinds of crises they would deem threats to national interests. Thursday, 
they almost echoed each other's words. Bush said he was ``saddened 
and angered'' by the attack in Yemen and added: ``I hope that we gather 
enough intelligence to figure out who did the act and take the necessary 
action. There must be a consequence.'' Asked later in an interview 
with Fox News whether the consequences should include American military 
strikes, he said he wanted more information but thought the United 
States should send a ``swift, sure and a clear signal to terrorists 
around the world that we are not going to tolerate terrorism.'' He 
called for a moment of silence for the sailors before a speech in 
Langhorne, Pa. Gore also began a campaign event at a packed Milwaukee 
park by asking the crowd ``for a moment of silence and prayer'' for 
the American sailors who were killed. He drew cheers when he promised 
retaliation if the sailors had been victims of a terrorist attack, 
and declared, ``We will defend our country and we will defend our 
democracy.'' He told reporters, ``If it is determined to be the result 
of a terrorist operation, those responsible should know that the United 
States will not rest until the perpetrators are held accountable.'' 
Over the summer, Bush received the traditional intelligence briefing 
given by the Central Intelligence Agency to presidential nominees. 
A White House official said that Clinton's national security adviser, 
Samuel Berger, spoke Thursday to Bush's chief foreign policy adviser, 
Condoleezza Rice, on the day's events.