A U.S. Navy destroyer refueling in Yemen was rocked by an enormous 
explosion Thursday, and President Clinton said it appeared to be a 
terror attack. At least six American sailors died and 11 others were 
missing and presumed dead, officials said. Nearly three dozen others 
were injured, some of them severely. The explosion, which occurred 
at 12:15 p.m. (5:15 a.m. eastern time), came from one of several smaller 
harbor boats helping the destroyer, the Cole, dock at a refueling 
station in the Yemeni port at Aden, on the southern tip of the Arabian 
peninsula. Senior Pentagon officials said the boat, with at least 
two men aboard, had been loaded with explosives in what was evidently 
a well-planned suicide attack. Clinton, already grappling with escalating 
violence in Israel, appeared in the Rose Garden at the White House 
Thursday afternoon and somberly vowed to determine who was responsible 
and hold them accountable. His remarks raised the possibility of American 
military retaliation. ``If, as it now appears, this was an act of 
terrorism, it was a despicable and cowardly act,'' Clinton said, only 
moments after having met with his senior national security advisers. 
Officials said the explosion tore a gaping hole, 20 feet by 40 feet, 
in the side of the Cole, a guided-missile destroyer based in Norfolk, 
Va., which was carrying a crew of about 300. The blast caused extensive 
flooding, causing the ship to list slightly. By nightfall, however, 
crew members had managed to control the flooding and keep the ship 
afloat. The blast was devastatingly powerful. Adm. Vern Clark, the 
chief of naval operations, said that the Cole's hull at the point 
of the blast was designed to withstand 51,000 pounds of pressure per 
square inch. Photographs of the Cole showing a charred, bent hole 
at the waterline. The officials said they would not know the exact 
type of explosive used until forensic experts arrive and take samples 
from the ship's hull. The attack on the Cole occurred in an impoverished 
country on the Arabian peninsula that the United States has been trying 
to engage diplomatically, despite its history as a haven for terrorist 
groups, in part with port calls like the Cole's. American ships have 
stopped in Aden a dozen times since last year, officials said. Clark 
said that efforts to improve ties with Yemen were ``at the heart of 
the motivation'' to use its refueling station. The Cole, on its way 
to the Persian Gulf to join a naval battle group involved in operations 
over Iraq, had just arrived in Aden when the blast occurred. It was 
only scheduled to stay about four hours, just long enough to refuel 
before resuming its journey. While Clinton and his senior aides stopped 
short of definitively attributing the explosion to terrorism, senior 
Pentagon officials said the Cole was attacked in a highly sophisticated 
operation that depended on access to information about the Cole's 
brief visit to Aden. They said the evidence indicated the attack may 
have been weeks or months in the planning, suggesting that it might 
not be directly related to the roiling tensions in the Middle East. 
``It was clearly a pre-planned, premeditated event,'' one officer 
said. Clark, who appeared at the Pentagon with Secretary of Defense 
William Cohen, said he had little doubt the explosion was deliberate. 
``I have no reason to think that this was anything but a senseless 
act of terrorism,'' he said. Attorney General Janet Reno announced 
that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had already dispatched a 
team of investigators to Yemen to lead an inquiry _ a clear sign the 
administration was treating the explosion as a criminal act. The first 
agents came from a bureau office in neighboring Saudi Arabia, while 
a larger group that included explosive experts was leaving from Washington, 
along with investigators from the State Department and the Pentagon. 
Cohen said no one had immediately claimed responsibility for attacking 
the Cole. He and others here in Washington warned against prematurely 
assigning blame to any group or speculating on the motives for an 
attack. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) The list of potential suspects was long. 
Several radical Islamic organizations operate in Yemen, according 
to the State Department. They include the Palestinian group known 
as Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, the Egyptian Islamic Jihad 
and cells linked to Osama bin Laden, the exiled Saudi whom American 
officials blamed for the bombings of U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania 
on Aug. 7, 1998. The United States retaliated for those bombings 13 
days later with missile strikes in Afghanistan and Sudan. In recent 
weeks, President Saddam Hussein of Iraq has also intensified his threats 
against the United States, Israel and Arab states like Kuwait and 
Saudi Arabia in recent week. Even as the Cole was struck, U.S. intelligence 
officials had detected movement by one of Iraq's Republican Guard 
divisions west of the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, though Cohen suggested 
the timing could be coincidental. The explosion came at the height 
of the American presidential race. Along with the violence in Israel, 
it immediately eclipsed the campaign debate. Vice President Al Gore 
returned to Washington from the campaign trails to participate in 
meetings at the White House about both crises. His Republican rival, 
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, called for a vigorous, united approach 
on both fronts. ``Let's hope we can gather enough intelligence to 
figure out who did the act and take the necessary action,'' Bush said 
of the attack on the Cole. ``There must be a consequence.'' (END OPTIONAL 
TRIM) The attack was a jolt to an administration already scrambling 
to save the Middle East peace process, and its effects rippled around 
Washington and the world. President Clinton, who returned early to 
the White House from a visit to Chappaqua, N.Y., where he celebrated 
his 25th wedding anniversary, ordered all American ships in the Persian 
Gulf region to pull out of port and head to the relative safety of 
open waters. The Pentagon announced that it had heightened the state 
of alert for American forces around the world, including at American 
bases, while the State Department reiterated Thursday a world-wide 
advisory warning Americans living or traveling overseas to be watchful 
of potential terrorist attacks. The Cole, an Arleigh Burke-class destroyer, 
is one of the Navy's most sophisticated warships, equipped with advanced 
radar systems and high-speed missiles and cannons designed to protect 
itself and American battle groups against air and missile attacks. 
Despite its technological advances, however, the ship was essentially 
helpless to prevent an attack like the one Thursday _ the maritime 
equivalent of a truck packed with explosives pulling up to a building. 
``This is precisely the kind of threats that we face where countries 
are unwilling to take us on head to head, but will resort to acts 
of terrorism in order to achieve their goal,'' Cohen said at the Pentagon. 
The Cole's crew was already on a heightened state of alert because 
of the threat of terrorism in the region generally, but the boat that 
exploded did not raise suspicions since it was part of a flotilla 
helping the Cole moor at a refueling pier in the port. ``It has a 
legitimate purpose for being in the area,'' the senior official said 
of the ship. According to Pentagon officials, an Army major who serves 
as deputy defense attache at the U.S. Embassy in Yemen and was observing 
the refueling operation reported that the boat had already tied up 
one of the Cole's mooring lines to the refueling station in the harbor. 
The officials said the boat then returned, evidently to retrieve another 
line, when it exploded. One Pentagon official said the two men in 
the boat appeared to stand moments before the blast, but Cohen and 
Clark declined to speculate on their actions before the blast or their 
motives. Both evidently died in the explosion, while their boat was 
destroyed. It was not clear if others were aboard. The Cole's vulnerability 
to an attack of this sort immediately raised questions about the security 
measures the ship had taken. Clark said that the ship's captain would 
not necessarily have expected a routine mooring operation to pose 
a threat. ``Let me just say that the ability to deal with this kind 
of attack is limited by this circumstance,'' Clark said. While the 
visit was scheduled to be brief, Navy officials had notified the government 
of Yemen several days in advance. While security personnel were on 
the Cole's deck at the time, a Pentagon official said the crew had 
no warning before the explosion, which had such force that it buckled 
the ship's decks, badly damaging the engine room amidships, as well 
as an adjoining mess and living quarters. Most of those killed were 
in those areas, the officials said. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright 
said she had spoken with the President of Yemen, Ali Abdullah Saleh, 
who had offered to help with the treatment of those injured and the 
investigation. If confirmed as a terrorist attack, it would be the 
worst against American military forces since the bombing of an Air 
Force barracks in Saudi Arabia killed 19 airmen in 1996. It was the 
worst attack on an American Navy ship since an Iraqi missile struck 
the Stark, a guided-missile frigate in the Persian Gulf in 1987, killing 
37 sailors. The Navy dispatched two other ships from the region to 
Yemen to help with the effort to secure and ultimately repair the 
Cole. They are expected to arrive on Friday. Cohen said British and 
French ships were also headed to Aden to help. The roughly three dozen 
injured by the explosion were being treated at a hospital in Aden 
but were expected to be evacuated soon to American military hospitals, 
possibly in Germany. A medical team was flying from the island nation 
of Bahrain, headquarters of the Navy's 5th Fleet in the Persian Gulf. 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) Television footage from Yemen showed injured 
sailors being treated in a hospital. Cohen and Clark said the Pentagon 
had asked American news networks to stop broadcasting the stark images 
for fear of upsetting family members who had not yet learned the fate 
of sailors aboard. Clark expressed gratitude that they had complied. 
``I am so appreciative of the willingness of the networks to cease 
with those reports,'' he said. At the Cole's homeport in Norfolk, 
the Navy set up a center for family members to gather as grim news 
of deaths and injuries came in. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Clinton said the 
explosion aboard the Cole would not scuttle U.S. diplomatic efforts 
in the Middle East, if indeed that was the motive for the attack. 
``If their intention was to deter us from our mission of promoting 
peace and security in the Middle East, they will fail utterly,'' he 
said. At the Pentagon, Cohen echoed those remarks and warned that 
the United States would not rest ``until we have tracked down those 
who are responsible for this vicious and cowardly act.'' ``The United 
States is a global power with global responsibilities, and as a result, 
we face global risks,'' Cohen said. ``In the wake of this tragedy,'' 
he continued. ``I want to be very clear about one point. We will continue 
to protect our national interests around the world, in the Middle 
East, and elsewhere. No one should doubt our resolve to remain a force 
for peace and for stability, and no one should assume that they can 
force us to retreat. No one should assume they can attack us with 
impunity.''