Thursday was supposed to be a day of foreign policy highs for President 
Clinton. He was rolling back sanctions against Yugoslavia, where democracy 
has sprouted anew, and revealing the prospect of a historic visit 
to North Korea. But those glowing feats fell victim to sad foreign 
policy events: A deadly attack on a Navy destroyer docked in Yemen 
and intensified violence in the Middle East that even Clinton said 
is melting the prospects for peace ``before our very eyes.'' Just 
two days earlier, the White House basked in the glow of history. Clinton 
met with Jo Myong Rok, special envoy for North Korean leader Kim Jong 
Il, to discuss, among other things, what North Korea could do to be 
removed from the list of state sponsors of terrorism. Before Jo's 
visit ended, a joint U.S.-North Korean communique revealed that Clinton 
is considering becoming the first U.S. president to visit the reclusive 
communist nation _ something seen as inconceivable just weeks ago. 
After a day of fund-raising speeches in Pennsylvania, Clinton looked 
tranquil and happy Wednesday night as he stepped off of Air Force 
One, shopping bag from Tiffany &AMP; Co., in hand, heading home to 
Chappaqua, N.Y. so he and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton could 
celebrate their 25th wedding anniversary. Clinton had loose plans 
to return to Washington early Thursday, announce that he was lifting 
an oil embargo and a flight ban against Yugoslavia, then spend the 
morning playing golf. Aides prepared press releases trumpeting the 
sanctions removal as ``a first step toward ending Serbia's isolation.'' 
Instead, the president was awakened early Thursday by his national 
security adviser with news that a small boat had exploded beside the 
USS Cole as it docked in the Arabian Peninsula; Some sailors were 
dead, a dozen were missing. Then came word that two Israeli soldiers 
were killed by a Palestinian mob, and Israeli helicopters had fired 
rockets at Yasser Arafat's residential compound in retaliation. ``The 
president obviously was horrified,'' said White House spokesman Jake 
Siewert. Clinton called Defense Secretary William Cohen about the 
ship attack, then launched a round of phone calls to Arafat, British 
Prime Minister Tony Blair, United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan 
and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak. Grim-faced, Clinton rushed 
to the airport for the short flight back to Washington, then went 
directly to the White House for national security briefings. About 
two hours later, he appeared in the White House Rose Garden, appealing 
for a cease-fire in Israel and decrying the ``act of terrorism'' against 
the USS Cole. ``If their intention was to deter us from our mission 
of promoting peace and security in the Middle East, they will fail, 
utterly,'' Clinton said. However, he admitted, ``The alternative to 
the peace process is now no longer merely hypothetical. It is unfolding 
today before our very eyes.'' With that, Clinton went back to work 
in the Oval Office. He never mentioned Yugoslavia or North Korea.