Al Gore and George W. Bush both urged Palestinians to end the rising 
Middle East violence and demanded retribution for the apparent terrorist 
bombing of a Navy destroyer, finding rare agreement on foreign policy 
crises that overshadowed their presidential campaign. A day after 
their second debate, Gore and Bush scaled back plans to criticize 
each other's credibility, realizing that candidates _ like the commander 
in chief they hope to become _ must adapt to world events. ``It's 
time for our nation to speak with one voice,'' said Bush, the GOP 
nominee. Gore, the Democratic vice president, cut short a campaign 
trip to return to the White House, where he hadn't been since June 
because of the presidential race. ``They're learning what it means 
to be president of the United States because their plans and their 
campaigns just got wiped off the front pages,'' said Democratic political 
consultant Jim Duffy. ``And neither one of them better get caught 
playing politics with these issues.'' As the U.S. candidates slept, 
an angry mob of Palestinians killed three Israeli soldiers in the 
West Bank town of Ramallah. Israel's response was swift: Helicopters 
rocketed Arafat's residential compound in the Gaza Strip as well as 
targets in the West Bank. Separately, a small boat apparently carrying 
explosives tore a hole in the side of a Navy ship in port on the Arabian 
Peninsula, killing and wounding American sailors. Gore abruptly dropped 
plans to criticize Bush's debate performance _ ``I'm not going to 
take any political questions,'' he told reporters _ as aides said 
a full-throated attack would have been improper on such a day. He 
did criticize Bush's health care record as Texas governor, telling 
supporters it ``gives us an important window into what his priorities 
are.'' In one way, the turn of events worked against the vice president. 
After their first debate, Bush highlighted Gore's misstatements and 
undercut his credibility to gain in polls. Gore hoped to turn the 
tables Thursday by trumpeting Bush's miscues in their second meeting, 
particularly the misrepresentation of a case involving three convicted 
murderers in Texas. ``Mr. Bush ought to be held to the same exacting 
standards applied to Al Gore last week,'' deputy campaign manager 
Mark Fabiani said. Bush let his aides respond, knowing foreign affairs 
would overshadow the post-debate criticism. The Texas governor said 
he was saddened and angry by the attack on a Navy ship. ``Take the 
necessary action,'' he said. ``There must be a consequence.'' Gore 
said if the incident is an act of terrorism, ``something like this 
will be met with a full and forceful and effective retaliatory response 
from the United States of America. We will not leave this matter. 
We will defend our country.'' Bush campaigned in Pennsylvania and 
Michigan. Gore was in Wisconsin, and planned to visit Michigan Friday 
and Saturday. Their debate had found both men in agreement on several 
foreign policy issues, including the Middle East. Both called Israel 
a strong ally and urged Arafat to quell Palestinian unrest. On Thursday, 
Gore said, ``I want to call on Chairman Arafat to issue instructions 
to those who have been perpetrating the violence to cease and desist.'' 
Bush said Arafat ``must stand up and call on his people to put down 
their rocks and arms.'' Mike Young, political science professor at 
Penn State University, said Thursday's events would likely focus voters 
on foreign policy. ``I think that benefits Gore. I think it benefits 
the incumbent, the guys who are minding the store'' unless President 
Clinton or Gore missteps in reacting, Young said. Bush's running mate, 
former Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, said of a U.S. response to the 
ship attack, ``We'd better find out who did it and retaliate very 
forcefully.'' Gore's running mate, Sen. Joseph Lieberman, said, ``The 
United States must respond quickly, forcefully and unequivocally.'' 
Bush's performance against Gore in the foreign policy portion of Wednesday's 
debate will help Bush weather the emergence of the issue in the campaign, 
Republicans said. A number of independent analysts said both candidates 
helped themselves, and the race likely will remain tight. The final 
debate is next Tuesday in St. Louis. The foreign distractions came 
as Gore faced some tough tactical decisions. Aides say he is considering 
shifting more resources from battleground states that are not vital 
to his goal of 270 electoral votes to states that he absolutely can't 
win without _ such as Michigan and Pennsylvania. Doing so would be 
mean Gore has concluded that the race will be won or lost narrowly, 
and he will be outspent by the GOP. Democrats have already pulled 
ads from four states. The Bush campaign, meanwhile, has expanded its 
political map to states such as California and West Virginia. ``I 
just love it when a plan comes together,'' bragged Bush strategist 
Karl Rove at the debate.