CAIRO, Egypt (AP) _ U.S. embassies in the Middle East were assessing 
security Thursday following an apparent terrorist attack on a U.S. 
Navy 5th Fleet destroyer that killed at least five sailors and injured 
dozens of others. The U.S. Embassy in Yemen sent a message to American 
residents informing them of the explosion Thursday at the port of 
Aden and urging them to maintain a ``high level of vigilance,'' said 
Chris Eccel, an embassy spokesman. No one claimed responsibility for 
the explosion, which came amid anti-U.S. sentiment in the region over 
a perceived U.S. slant toward Israel in clashes with Palestinians. 
In Washington, U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno said officials were 
discussing issuing a worldwide terrorist alert at U.S. installations. 
The U.S. Embassy in Bahrain, where 1,000 U.S. military personnel and 
the U.S. 5th Fleet are based, issued a similar message. Donna Winton, 
spokeswoman at the U.S. Embassy, said there haven't been any particular 
precautions taken because of the Yemen explosion. In Jordan, the U.S. 
Embassy warned its personnel and Americans to be vigilant over the 
two-day weekend starting Friday, the Muslim Sabbath. ``Due to continuing 
tensions in the region and the continued uncertainty of the security 
environment, the embassy is instructing embassy personnel not to make 
nonessential movements from their places of residence,'' the embassy 
said in a statement. It repeated State Department instructions to 
U.S. citizens to ``maintain a low profile, vary routes and times for 
all required travel, and treat mail from unfamiliar sources with suspicion.'' 
A senior security official said the embassy's message was a ``precautionary 
measure'' in case of demonstrations on Friday. Violent riots broke 
out last Friday close to the U.S. Embassy, where police fired tear 
gas to block angry protesters from reaching the U.S. mission. The 
protesters hurled stones at police, smashed shop windows and vandalized 
cars and phone booths. Last month, a Jordanian military court issued 
harsh sentences to 22 men convicted of planning terrorist attacks 
on U.S. and Israeli targets in the kingdom. In Damascus, the U.S. 
Embassy refused to comment on security precautions, but spokesman 
Steve Seche said embassy personnel were following the situation. ___ 
On the Net, http://travel.state.gov