Despite the known risks of terrorism in Yemen, American ships like 
the destroyer Cole have made refueling stops there 12 times in recent 
months as part of an American strategy to improve ties with the Arab 
country. After consultations with the White House and the State Department, 
the Pentagon decided last year that Navy ships would refuel in Yemen's 
deep sea port of Aden, at the southern tip of the Arabian peninsula. 
Security precautions were taken on each occasion, Pentagon officials 
said Thursday, adding that there had been no specific intelligence 
warning of a threat to the Cole when it visited the port. Yemen, an 
impoverished nation of some 16 million people, refused to join the 
allies against Iraq during the gulf war and has been a haven to international 
terrorist groups, who operate and train in its hinterlands, according 
to the current State Department report on terrorism. ``We have been 
working to improve our relations with Yemen for some time,'' Admiral 
Vern Clark, chief of naval operations, said Thursday. ``And I'm sure 
that that was at the heart of the motivation'' of commanders in the 
region when they established refueling operations at Aden, he said. 
U.S. officials said Thursday that the budding relationship with Yemen 
had recently seemed to be bearing fruit. In April, Yemen's president, 
Ali Abdullah Saleh, visited Washington and met with President Clinton. 
And as allied forces in the region have intercepted ships accused 
of violating the sanctions against Iraq, Yemen has allowed them to 
bring the offending vessels to the port at Aden, another step that 
distanced Yemen from Iraq, and angered the Iraqis. In recent days, 
however, Yemen's government had helped organize massive demonstrations 
against Israel and the United States in Aden, in the capital Sana'a 
and other cities, residents said. Gen. Anthony Zinni, the recently 
retired Pentagon regional commander for the Middle East, pressed the 
decision to brave the mixed security situation in Yemen, Pentagon 
officials said. ``In the last couple of years, Yemen has been doing 
a better job trying to control terrorism,'' said Kenneth Bacon, the 
Pentagon spokesman. ``We obviously felt that it was safe to take our 
ships there.'' All ships in the area prepare and follow a detailed 
security plan against possible terrorist attack, Pentagon officials 
said. ``I don't think we missed any specific threats,'' Defense Secretary 
William S. Cohen said. ``There are general threats in the region, 
and we understand that. And that's the reason why we have such precautionary 
measures we take.'' The ship came into the port at the second-highest 
level of alert, Clark said, and the sailors had undergone security 
training before this mission. Clark refused to discuss details of 
the security measures involved. Officials said that security training 
includes precautions against terrorist attacks from small boats, but 
that in this case the boat appeared to be part of the refueling operation 
itself and was not suspect. The Cole was the 12th U.S. ship to visit 
Yemen, and the third since May, officials said. Even though the State 
Department dropped Yemen from its list of terrorist nations 10 years 
ago when North Yemen merged with formerly Marxist South Yemen, diplomats 
say the Yemeni government is too weak to control radical groups from 
Palestine, Egypt, Libya and Algeria. Saleh, the former army general 
who is Yemen's president, denied that terrorists were responsible 
for Thursday's explosion. ``Yemen does not have any terrorist elements, 
and there is no relationship between this and what is happening in 
the occupied territories,'' Saleh told CNN, referring to Gaza and 
the West Bank. But Daniel Benjamin, an anti-terrorist expert who recently 
resigned from the National Security Council, said, ``Yemen is a troubled 
spot because central authority is limited largely to control of a 
few major centers.'' He added, ``There is no shortage of bad actors 
who would like nothing better than to attack the United States.'' 
The groups stationed in and around Yemen include Hamas, the Palestinian 
Islamic Jihad and sympathizers or members of other international terrorist 
groups like the Egyptian Islamic Jihad, al-Gama'at al-Islaymiyya and 
the Algerian Armed Islamic Group, according to the State Department 
terrorism report. Other experts suggested that Osama bin Laden, who 
the United States believes was behind the bombing of two American 
embassies in Africa in 1998, comes from an ethnic Yemeni family and 
has influence there, as does Iraq. The American ships refueling in 
Aden, which are part of the fifth fleet, largely help enforce the 
sanctions against Iraq. ``It's really too early to speculate, but 
you have to ask who is angry enough at us to attack an American target, 
and you may pick the Iraqis,'' said Jerry Bremer, a former State Department 
terrorist expert who this year chaired a national commission on terrorism. 
A land of arid, rocky deserts and remote mountains, Yemen has existed 
in its present form only since 1990, when the two Yemens that emerged 
from Turkish and British colonial domination in the 19th and 20th 
centuries were united. The union has been uneasy, and a civil war 
in 1994 that ended in victory for the new national government in Sana'a 
left deep schisms, with tribal fiefdoms in the hinterland that have 
served as strongholds for the Islamic terrorist groups. Armed groups 
have made targets of American, British and other foreign visitors 
and institutions, including tourists who began returning in the mid-1990s 
to explore the remains of ancient civilizations. Without the oil resources 
of its richer neighbors, Yemen has sent many thousands of its people 
to work in richer and less populous Arab states, often manning their 
militaries. Many Yemenis also fought with the mujahedin against Soviet 
forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s.