The crippled warship USS Cole was listing but still afloat in a Yemeni 
port as investigators tried to find who planned its apparent bombing 
and the Navy broke the sad news to families of sailors dead, missing 
or injured. ``We will find out who is responsible and hold them accountable,'' 
President Clinton declared. The tragedy was all the more shocking 
given that U.S. forces in the Middle East have been on a heightened 
state of alert in recent days because of spiraling Israeli-Palestinian 
turmoil and considerable anti-American sentiment in the region. ``If 
their intention was to deter us from our mission of promoting peace 
and security in the Middle East, they will fail, utterly,'' Clinton 
said in the Rose Garden just hours after Thursday's explosion in the 
port of Aden, Yemen. Defense Secretary William Cohen said he knew 
of no other specific threats against American forces in the region, 
but said he ordered an increased alert level for all U.S. forces around 
the world, including those in the United States. Pentagon officials 
said that in a cunning slip through Navy security, suicide bombers 
drove a small boat with explosives up to the guided-missile destroyer 
as it made a refueling stop in Aden. The Navy said the toll was six 
crew members killed, 35 injured and 11 missing. Officials were working 
late Thursday night to notify families and said they would release 
no names of casualties until Friday. They did say women were among 
the casualties. The parents of sailor Craig Wibberley, 19, of Williamsport, 
Md., confirmed Thursday night that their son was killed in the bombing, 
according to The Herald-Mail of Hagerstown, Md. After the attack, 
ambulances rushed to the port, and Americans working with Yemeni authorities 
cordoned off the area. The ship was listing four degrees. Yemeni police 
sources said without elaboration that a number of people had been 
detained for questioning; it was not clear whether any were suspects. 
The State Department issued a worldwide alert, saying it was extremely 
concerned about the possibility of violence against U.S. citizens 
and interests. The Cole attack was the first targeting the U.S. military 
in Yemen since the Pentagon pulled out all 100 American military personnel 
there in January 1993 after bombings outside the U.S. Embassy and 
at hotels where some Americans were staying. U.S. intelligence has 
blamed Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaida organization for some of those incidents. 
With its 350 crew members, the Cole was en route to the Persian Gulf 
to help catch ships smuggling goods in violation of the U.N. embargo 
against Iraq. ``I have no reason to think this was anything but a 
senseless act of terrorism,'' said Adm. Vern Clark, the chief of naval 
operations. The United States dispatched investigators, intelligence 
experts and diplomats to the site of the explosion, and the government 
of Yemen promised to cooperate. Among questions they would try to 
answer: What type and strength of explosive was it that ripped the 
20 foot by 40 foot hole in the hull of one of the world's most advanced 
warships? The explosion was the deadliest attack against the U.S. 
military since the bombing of an Air Force barracks in Saudi Arabia 
in 1996 that killed 19. Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh visited 
some of the injured who were hospitalized locally. But he disagreed 
with the main assumption of the U.S. investigation. ``I don't think 
it's a terrorist attack,'' he said. The Cole, a $1 billion vessel 
based at Norfolk, Va., had just arrived in the harbor and was scheduled 
to leave in about four hours, officials said. Clark said he couldn't 
fault the Cole's crew for failing to prevent the midday attack that 
apparently was carried out by two men in a small harbor craft that 
was helping tie up the ship's mooring lines at the port's fueling 
facility. The Cole was following proper security rules when it was 
attacked, Clark said. ``We don't automatically suspect people that 
are sent forward to help us,'' Clark said. William Arkin, a military 
expert who specializes in Gulf affairs, said Yemen became a more frequent 
refueling stop for Navy ships following a December 1997 U.S. government 
policy decision to open up contacts and cooperation with the country. 
___ On the Net: Defense Department: http://www.defenselink.mil/ State 
Department Bureau of Near Eastern Affair's country page on Yemen: 
http://www.state.gov/www/regions/nea/country/cp_yemen.html