It only takes a little boat to make America, the Superpower, list 
symbolically in the water; merely a Saudi truck bomb, blasting a miniature 
moon crater, to humiliate as well as kill. Images of past humiliations 
are sharp, yet can run together in the mind. Gaping jagged holes and 
mountains of rubble, always the same shade of gray, are the common 
denominators of so many. The limp American flag hanging on a pole 
outside the car-bombed Beirut embassy in April 1983. The bombed Marine 
barracks in the same city six months later. Floors collapsed like 
an accordion at the Khobar Towers military housing compound in Saudi 
Arabia in 1996. Gray rubble everywhere. And, outside Khobar Towers, 
a bare footprint rendered in blood, each toe leaving a distinct mark 
from red blood turning brown. A U.S. ambassador in a blood-spattered 
green suit helped from a stairwell full of smoke and flying glass 
near the bombed embassy in Kenya in 1998. Each event measured precisely 
in lives lost but sized up in guesses as to what it means about America's 
place in the world. The presidential candidates were more prophetic 
than they could have wished to be when they sat down the other night 
and talked about how the United States is regarded. ``If we're an 
arrogant nation, they'll resent us,'' said George W. Bush. ``If we're 
a humble nation but strong, they'll welcome us.'' ``I agree with that,'' 
said Al Gore, his debating partner. ``I agree with that.'' ``We are 
so much more powerful than any single nation has been,'' the vice 
president went on. ``There is some resentment.'' Eight hours later, 
in the port of Aden, Yemen, some resentment or craziness or reason 
perhaps lost to the sea struck with terrible force. A boat that was 
helping moor the USS Cole turned against it, blowing a hole in the 
destroyer's gray steel hull amidships in what appeared to be a suicidal 
act of terrorism. The destroyer is sheathed in 70 tons of armor. The 
gray seawater poured in and made it list four degrees. America abroad 
is seen as strong, for sure. Arrogant, by many. Humble, not hardly. 
One episode of humility came out of the 1998 Nairobi bombing, when 
American and African cultures intermingled in the chaos. Prudence 
Bushnell, the injured ambassador, talked later about certain African 
qualities. ``I will never forget that, people behaved with such solidarity 
_ there was no individualism,'' she said. ``Very dense smoke, and 
we came to a standstill. Somebody yelled fire, but even then, there 
was no panic, no stampede.'' To some extent, every American abroad 
is a symbol and, therefore, vulnerable in certain places or circumstances. 
The State Department lists 27 countries that Americans should avoid 
_ Yemen not among them at this point _ and almost as many countries 
where Americans should take extra care. The affronts, indignities 
and attacks have not always come in predictable places or ways, as 
when a rocket-propelled grenade pierced the wall of the U.S. Embassy 
in Moscow in 1995. All of it has made America's symbols more of a 
fortress, at home and overseas. Big concrete planters hold flowers 
but are really there to stop suicide drivers or their ilk from getting 
close to the edifices of U.S. power. Rollerbladers make lazy circles 
now on Pennsylvania Avenue in front of the White House, where traffic 
is no longer allowed and barriers rise from the pavement beside gatehouses 
in the middle of what used to be a bustling street. ___ On the Web: 
State Department travel warnings and safety information by country: 
http://travel.state.gov/travel_warnings.html