A loud bang drew Shaher Mohammed Saeed to his office windows at the 
state radio and television building overlooking Aden's port. He looked 
out to see a thick column of smoke billowing from the U.S. Navy destroyer 
USS Cole. An explosion just offshore ripped a gaping hole in the 9,100-ton 
USS Cole, one of the world's most advanced warships, killing six crew 
members, injuring 35, and putting Yemen at the center of what appears 
to be an act of terrorism against the United States. Eleven others 
were missing. The attack at the port's fueling facility came amid 
anti-U.S. fervor in the region sparked by more than two weeks of Israeli-Palestinian 
clashes. There was no immediate claim of responsibility. Ahmed Mohammed 
al-Naderi was sitting at his desk in the port-side hotel he manages 
when the building shook from the explosion. The blast ``was so loud 
I thought it was from inside the hotel,'' al-Naderi said. ``Thank 
God, none of the guests or hotel personnel were injured,'' al-Naderi 
said. His white, nine-story hotel, built in 1957 but refurbished five 
years ago, remained open with only a few guests. Police officials 
in Yemen, a nation on the southern tip of the Arabian Peninsula on 
the Red Sea, said that a number of people had been detained for questioning 
but would not say whether any were considered suspects. The blast 
broke windows along the Red Sea coast in homes and businesses _ including 
Al-Naderi's Rock Hotel. A car that had been passing by about 60 feet 
from the ship was overturned. The fate of the car's occupants wasn't 
known. Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh was shown on national television 
visiting some of the wounded, who included at least two Yemenis. He 
called for an investigation and rejected allegations from U.S. officials 
that terrorists were behind the explosion. ``The American ships have 
been coming for quite some time and nobody shows anger,'' said Mohammed 
el-Attar, a Yemeni journalist in Aden, one of the deepest ports in 
the world. Yemen has in the past bristled at suggestions it harbored 
anti-American elements. When the recent Hollywood movie ``Rules of 
Engagement'' showed Yemenis rioting outside the U.S. Embassy in Yemen, 
Yemeni officials objected it was a ``barbaric and racist'' portrayal 
and noted there had not been an anti-U.S. riot in the country in almost 
a decade. But Yemen saw small bombings outside the U.S. Embassy and 
at hotels where Americans were staying in 1993. Yemen became a more 
frequent refueling stop for Navy ships following a U.S. decision in 
December to open up contacts and cooperation with the country. In 
recent days, angry street protests have erupted in Yemen and many 
of its neighbors over what many Arabs see as U.S.-backed Israel's 
harsh response to Palestinian protests. Sixteen days of Israeli-Palestinian 
clashes have left more than 90 people dead, most of them Palestinians. 
Saleh has been criticized for calling for an Arab war against Israel. 
He says the media ``twisted'' his words. Yemeni Prime Minister Abdul-Karim 
al-Iryani told The Associated Press in March that wanted terrorist 
Osama bin Laden at one time had ``colleagues'' in Yemen, but now ``has 
no place in Yemen, no military camps.'' The United States accuses 
bin Laden of organizing a militant network with followers across the 
Mideast, including Yemen, and says he masterminded 1998 bombings against 
the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, which killed 224 people. 
Yemen was one of the countries where members of the Palestine Liberation 
Organization settled after losing a base in Lebanon. Few Palestinians 
remain in Yemen today.