Suspicion immediately centered on Osama bin Laden and the terrorism 
network he operates out of Afghanistan as U.S. experts probed the 
deadly attack on an American warship in Yemen. The United States accuses 
bin Laden of masterminding the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya 
and Tanzania two years ago that killed 224 people. His network is 
believed to extend to Yemen and other parts of the Middle East. President 
Clinton retaliated by bombing bin Laden camps in Afghanistan and a 
pharmaceutical factory in Sudan believed run by supporters of the 
expatriate Saudi. Clinton left no doubt Thursday that he again would 
strike a hard blow once a joint U.S.-Yemeni investigation determined 
who attacked the USS Cole on Thursday, killing or wounding dozens 
of sailors as it docked at the port of Aden. ``If, as it now appears, 
this was an act of terrorism, it was a despicable and cowardly act,'' 
the president said in the White House Rose Garden. ``We will find 
out who was responsible and hold them accountable.'' Known to operate 
in Yemen, as well, are two deadly groups: the Egyptian Islamic Jihad 
and the Islamic Army of Aden, whose leader, Zein al-Abidine al-Midhar 
was executed by firing squad two years ago in the hostage-taking of 
two Americans and 14 other Western tourists. The groups' militancy 
and location automatically make them suspects. Others under suspicion 
when terrorists strike include the Popular Front for the Liberation 
of Palestine and the Abu Nidal organization. Both have been relatively 
quiet lately. Hamas and the Iranian-backed Palestine Islamic Jihad 
group both have a presence in Yemen but are not known to have attacked 
Americans specifically. While weighing eyewitness accounts and the 
kind of explosive used in the attack, investigators are considering 
motivation and capability, the groups' track record and how far afield 
they tend to operate. Above all others, the bin Laden group is the 
one that comes to mind first in terms of method of operation and long-reach 
capability, said a U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
According to Vincent Cannistraro, former chief of counterterrorism 
at the CIA, the attack was a suicide operation that only a handful 
of groups in the Middle East carry out _ Hezbollah, Hamas, the Palestinian 
Islamic Jihad and the bin Laden network. And, Cannistraro said in 
an interview, the only one of the four that has targeted Americans 
and has issued a fatwa, or religious edict, against Americans is the 
bin Laden group. ``He has access in Yemen, his father comes from southern 
Yemen and he has close ties with the Islamic Army of Aden, a militant 
group set up by bin Laden's brother, Muhammad Khalifa,'' the ex-CIA 
official said. Also, Cannistraro said, there are groups associated 
with bin Laden in Yemen that he funds and supports, and he has a camp 
inside the country. ``There are clear signs this was an inside job, 
and that those two suicide bombers were Yemeni themselves,'' he said. 
``They carried high explosives. They had to be trained and prepared.'' 
Once the United States has convincing evidence, Cannistraro said, 
``I suspect we will retaliate, but we have to find an address before 
we can bomb, and that's the hardest part.'' Steven Emerson, a terrorism 
expert, said the motive and capability point to an Islamic fundamentalist 
organization, one probably allied with bin Laden. And, Emerson said 
in an interview, ``we have to consider a Hezbollah connection'' because 
that militant group has a better vessel capability than any other 
one. ``There is only a finite number of suspects with the capability 
of carrying this out,'' Emerson said. Over the past two years in Yemen, 
he said, young British militant Muslims and local Yemeni Muslims have 
been training in terrorist camps. ``Next to Sudan and Iran,'' he said, 
``Yemen has one of the highest concentrations of terrorist camps in 
the world.'' Yonah Alexander, director of the Washington-based International 
Center for Terrorism, suggested the Egyptian Islamic Jihad was a logical 
suspect. ``They do have the capability for maritime terrorism,'' he 
said. The group has fought in Egypt, Sudan and Afghanistan, ``and 
there is no question it is one of the major legs of the bin Laden 
organization,'' Alexander said in an interview. It is vehemently anti-American 
because of American support of Egypt and Israel, he said. Michael 
Sheehan, director of the State Department's counterterrorism office, 
stressed, however, that ``the U.S. government has not yet made a final 
determination about the incident and whether its cause was terrorism.''