A bigger ship wouldn't have had a chance against the USS Cole. In 
battle, her weaponry was designed to take on squads of enemy aircraft, 
submarines and missiles. Enemy radar might have mistaken her stealthy 
image for a fishing boat. But it was a tiny bomb-laden, possibly rubber 
boat _ that appeared to be on a routine mooring operation _ which 
proved the toughest match for the 505-foot Arleigh-Burke-class guided 
missile destroyer and her crew of 350 highly trained Naval men and 
women. The massive but speedy $1 billion USS Cole, powered by four 
jet engines similar to those used in airliners, is one of the Navy's 
most advanced warships, built around the high-tech Aegis combat system 
which employs the latest anti-aircraft and anti-submarine technology. 
It carries batteries of anti-aircraft and anti-ship missiles, a cannon 
that can launch five-inch shells more than 10 miles and two Gatling 
guns that each can fire 50 bullets a second. Admiral Vernon Clark, 
chief of naval operations, said the ship's hull varies in thickness 
but is covered with half-inch steel at the waterline that is capable 
of withstanding 51,000 pounds per square inch where the powerful explosion 
ripped it open. The destroyer's ``vital spaces'' are protected by 
70 tons of armor, according to Jane's Fighting Ships. Most of its 
exterior walls are slanted so they are less easily detected by enemy 
radar. With that and added anti-radar protection, it casts a tiny 
image on enemy screens. The primary mission of the USS Cole is to 
defend some the Navy's biggest ships in aircraft carrier battle groups 
against multiple air, surface and submarine attacks. It was blown 
open in the Yemen port of Aden early Thursday by one of the smallest 
crafts on the water. U.S. authorities were investigating, but an early 
eyewitness account from an Army major who works at the U.S. Embassy 
in Yemen described the attacking vessel as a small rubber boat. The 
destroyer, based at Norfolk, Va., is assigned to the USS George Washington 
battle group now operating in the Persian Gulf region. The ship commanded 
by Cmdr. Kirk S. Lippold left Norfolk in June for a six-month deployment. 
It has a top speed of more than 33 mph. Named for the mythical shield 
of Zeus, the Aegis system is a suite of computer-linked radar and 
weaponry. Unlike the standard radar with a rotating wand, Aegis's 
SPY-1D phased-array radar sends out a blizzard of impulses to create 
a digitized image of an operational area on large blue screens. Its 
computers can identify incoming enemy missiles or aircraft as far 
as 200 miles away. Commissioned in 1996, the Cole was named Sgt. Darrell 
S. Cole of Flat River, Mo., first U.S. marine killed at Iwo Jima the 
day 30,000 landed, Feb. 19, 1945. Its motto: ``Determined Warrior.'' 
Following an ancient shipbuilding tradition, the ultramodern Cole 
reportedly carries coins embedded in its mast by Cole relatives: 67 
cents for its hull number, including 1920 and 1945 quarters for the 
years its namesake was born and died. Tradition says the coins will 
ensure payment of the crew for the voyage home in the event of mishap.