The presumed death toll in the bombing of the U.S. Navy warship in 
Yemen rose to 17 on Friday, while an explosion rocked the British 
Embassy 200 miles away in the Yemeni capital. Windows shattered but 
nobody was hurt at the embassy in San`a. Britain's foreign secretary 
said a bomb may have been flung into embassy grounds. Authorities 
were investigating. The new attack came as American military planes 
evacuated 22 of the 35 sailors injured in Thursday's blast to Germany 
for medical treatment. Navy officials in the United States said explosives 
experts who examined the USS Cole's damaged hull have concluded that 
the blast came from an external source, bolstering the contention 
that it was a terrorist attack. The ship was refueling in Yemen at 
the time. Western diplomats in Yemen said the explosion seemed to 
be the work of a well-organized group with good connections in the 
port of Aden who might have provided the bombers with some logistical 
support. The diplomats, insisting on anonymity, said the boat used 
by the suicide bombers was similar to boats used by port authorities 
to guide vessels into port or facilitate ships with refueling. Seven 
soldiers have been confirmed dead and the families of 10 who remain 
missing are being notified that they are presumed to have died, U.S. 
Navy spokeswoman Lt. Cmdr. Cate Mueller said in Washington. Efforts 
to recover their remains were continuing, she said. Thursday's blast 
tore a hole 20 feet to 40 feet in diameter. U.S. officials say suicide 
bombers blew up a small boat next to the 9,100-ton destroyer. The 
French Defense Ministry said Friday its army planes had taken 11 of 
the injured overnight to Bouffard military hospital in Djibouti, where 
six underwent surgery. Lt. Terrence Dudley, a U.S. Navy spokesman, 
said 22 others were evacuated Friday to Germany. Two, apparently less 
seriously hurt, remained in Aden. In Germany, officials at the Ramstein 
Air Base said they were expecting bodies of the dead sailors to begin 
arriving later today and the injured late Friday or early Saturday. 
The injured were to be taken to the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, 
a U.S. military facility. Dudley said some of the injured USS Cole 
sailors were in serious condition and others were stable. He did not 
elaborate. American investigators as well as U.S. Marines and soldiers 
filled Aden, bringing in equipment to search for clues beneath the 
water near the USS Cole. Sniffer dogs also were seen being brought 
to the area. Dudley said investigators may keep working at the site 
another two days. The USS Cole, one of the world's most advanced warships, 
was left slightly tilted in Aden harbor. ``The ship took (in) some 
water and we are trying to dewater it. But, generally, it is seaworthy 
and we will tow it to the United States,'' said Dudley, of the Bahrain-based 
U.S. 5th Fleet. The Cole is a $1 billion guided missile destroyer 
home-ported at Norfolk, Virginia. It was heading with a crew of about 
350 to the Gulf for maritime intercept operations in support of the 
U.N. embargo against Iraq. U.S. embassies in the Middle East said 
Friday they had been ordered by the State Department to close public 
operations until Monday in light of developments in Yemen and escalating 
violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Anti-American sentiment 
has been running high in the Arab world, where protesters have been 
condemning the United States during demonstrations against Israel's 
actions in two weeks of deadly clashes in Jerusalem and the Palestinian 
territories. Yemen, an impoverished country on the tip of the Arabian 
Peninsula on the Red Sea, is known for its anarchic politics, streak 
of fundamentalism and routine snatches of Western hostages who generally 
are exchanged unharmed for government pledges to provide basic services. 
In Washington, President Clinton said Thursday that the USS Cole explosion 
appeared to be an act of terrorism, the worst against the U.S. military 
since the bombing of an Air Force barracks in Saudi Arabia in 1996 
that killed 19 troops. ``We will find out who was responsible and 
hold them accountable,'' Clinton pledged. He dispatched to Yemen investigative 
teams from the FBI, the State Department and the Pentagon. Clinton 
also ordered a heightened state of alert for all U.S. military installations 
around the world. No one has claimed responsibility, Defense Secretary 
William Cohen told a Pentagon news conference. Yemeni officials privately 
rejected the accusations of a suicide attack, saying a joint investigation 
is needed to determine the cause of the blast. Dudley would not say 
whether any Yemeni authorities were involved in the investigation. 
``The investigation is being done by our team and is being conducted 
quickly and fairly,'' he said. ``I can't go into the details of the 
status of the investigation.'' Yemeni police officials said a number 
of people had been detained for questioning. The officials, speaking 
on condition of anonymity, did not say how many or if any were considered 
suspects. Yemeni police and soldiers sealed off the port area, preventing 
ships and small boats from approaching the warship. Gen. Mohamed Saleh 
Gedrif, Aden security chief, refused to allow journalists into the 
port, saying the area is considered a closed security zone. The explosion 
broke windows in homes and businesses along the Red Sea coast and 
overturned a car passing about 60 feet from the destroyer. It wasn't 
clear what happened to the occupants. Yemen became a more frequent 
refueling stop for Navy ships following a December 1997 U.S. decision 
to open up contacts and cooperation with the country. Four years earlier, 
there had been small bombings outside the U.S. Embassy and at hotels 
where Americans were staying. Islamic extremists have been active 
in Yemen. However, Yemeni Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Iryani said 
in March that the United States' most-wanted terror suspect, Osama 
bin Laden, at one time had ``colleagues'' in Yemen, but now ``has 
no place in Yemen, no military camps.'' The United States accuses 
bin Laden of organizing a militant network with followers across the 
Mideast, including Yemen, and says he masterminded 1998 bombings against 
the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, which killed 224 people. 
Yemen also was one of the countries where members of the Palestine 
Liberation Organization settled after losing a base in Lebanon. Few 
Palestinians remain in Yemen today.