Navy explosives experts have determined without doubt that the explosion 
that tore through the USS Cole, killing 17, ``was a blast from the 
outside,'' adding to the evidence that it was a deliberate act, Adm. 
Vern Clark said Friday. ``I've said all along, from where I stand, 
in my view this was clearly a terrorist act,'' Clark, the chief naval 
officer, said in an interview with The Associated Press. Navy officials 
said Friday that the 10 sailors still missing from the USS Cole are 
now presumed to have died. Seven bodies have been recovered. Officials 
said they expected to find more Friday. ``We don't want to destroy 
hope, but we don't want to create false hope, either,'' Clark said. 
Other Navy officials said the assumption is that the missing are dead, 
but there will be no formal change in their status until they are 
recovered, since the bodies are known to be inside the ship. Navy 
officials also said explosives experts who examined the ship's damaged 
hull have concluded that the blast came from an external source. ``There 
had been some talk that this was a blast internal to the ship; their 
conclusion is: no way,'' Clark said. ``Clearly it was a blast from 
outside.'' Clark said he was not aware whether the explosives experts 
reached any conclusions about the type or size of explosive used in 
the attack. Navy spokeswoman Lt. Cmdr. Cate Mueller said families 
of the 10 missing sailors are being notified that they are presumed 
to have died in the explosion. Efforts to recover their remains are 
continuing, she said. In addition to the seven confirmed dead and 
10 missing, about 33 were injured in the blast Thursday. Lt. Cmdr. 
Daren Pelkie, a spokesman at 5th Fleet headquarters in Bahrain, said 
Friday that 11 of the 33 had been flown to a French military medical 
facility in Djibouti, and the 22 others were being readied for transport 
to Germany. Mueller said the Navy would release the names of the casualties 
when all families have been notified. Clark, interviewed on NBC's 
``Today,'' said all but three of the families of the dead and missing 
had been notified. ``The individuals we haven't located yet aren't 
home. They are traveling some place and that's the challenge for us.'' 
A death toll of 17 would be the highest for a terrorist attack on 
the American military since the bombing of the Khobar Towers housing 
complex in Saudi Arabia in 1996, which killed 17 Air Force troops. 
Mueller said a team of Navy explosive ordnance disposal experts examined 
the damaged hull of the USS Cole and determined conclusively that 
the explosion was caused by an external source. It is believed to 
have come from a small boat that pulled up alongside the warship Thursday 
in the port of Aden and set off a high-explosive charge. The conclusion 
reached by the explosives experts strengthens the belief that the 
incident was a terrorist act, officials said. The divers who examined 
the hull now estimate that the hole created by the blast is 30 feet 
high and 40 feet wide, Mueller said. The initial estimate was 20 feet 
high and 40 feet wide.