ADEN, Yemen _ U.S. officials said Friday that 17 people were killed 
when a Navy destroyer refueling in Yemen was rocked by an explosion 
in an apparent terrorist attack on Thursday. There were 38 other sailors 
injured, some of them severely. The explosion came from one of several 
smaller harbor boats helping the destroyer Cole dock at a refueling 
station in this port, on the southern tip of the Arabian peninsula. 
Senior Pentagon officials said the boat, with at least two men aboard, 
had been loaded with explosives in what was evidently a well-planned 
suicide attack. Another bomb went off Friday morning in the British 
embassy compound in Sana, the Yemeni capital, but no one was hurt, 
said a British foreign office spokesman in London. Sana is about 200 
miles from Aden, and there was no immediate evidence the two bombings 
were directly related. The bomb at the embassy was apparently hurled 
onto the grounds, and the British foreign office said a team of Scotland 
Yard investigators was being sent to investigate to determine if it 
was a terrorist attack. As dawn broke over Aden on Friday morning, 
the U.S. vessel could be seen from across the harbor, with a black 
hole in its side and sooty marks running up from the water. Sailors 
were active on the deck, and the first American investigators began 
arriving. The hole in the ship was later covered with a white tarpaulin. 
Later in the morning, more U.S. troops arrived in Yemen to provide 
security and additional medical help for the injured. In Norfolk, 
Va., Friday morning, Naval officials released the identities of the 
seven sailors whose bodies have been recovered as well as names of 
an additional 10 sailors officially listed as missing. An official 
said the Navy believes the missing were all killed in the blast, although 
the missing will continue to be listed as such until their deaths 
are officially confirmed. In Aden, the harbor area was tense and tightly 
sealed by army and police units of Yemen, many of them in camouflage. 
One officer said: ``The Americans are our friends. This is bad for 
Yemen.'' Two other U.S. Navy ships, including a destroyer, arrived 
Thursday in Aden to guard the Cole and help stabilize it. Pentagon 
officials said that some power and communication capabilities of the 
Cole had been restored. Britain and France also sent ships to Aden. 
Kenneth H. Bacon, the Pentagon spokesman, said that 38 sailors were 
injured in the attack, although five of the injured have returned 
to duty after receiving treatment for minor injuries. Officials evacuated 
22 of the injured sailors to Germany aboard U.S. planes. Those sailors 
were to be treated at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, a U.S. military 
hospital in Germany. Eleven other sailors were flown on French planes 
to Djibouti, in East Africa, for treatment. Bacon said those sailors 
will also be taken to Germany. The bodies of five of the sailors killed 
in the explosion arrived on Friday afternoon at Ramstein Air Base 
in Germany. Flag-draped coffins were carried from the aircraft to 
waiting hearses by an Air Force honor guard. The bodies will be brought 
back to the United States on Saturday. The 17 dead included both men 
and women. The seven sailors confirmed dead are: Electronics Technician 
1st Class Richard Costelow, Morrisville, Pa.; Signalman Seaman Recruit 
Cheron Ouis Gunn, Rex, Ga.; Seaman James Rodrick McDaniels, Norfolk, 
Va.; Seaman Recruit Lakiba Nicole Palmer, San Diego, Calif.; Operations 
Specialist 2nd Class Timothy Lamont Saunders, Ringold, Va.; Ensign 
Andrew Triplett, Macon, Miss., and Seaman Apprentice Craig Bryan Wibberley, 
Williamsport, Md. The Navy also released the names of sailors who 
are listed as missing, but whom officials have said were killed in 
the blast. Those sailors are Hull Maintenance Technician 3rd Class 
Kenneth Eugene Clodfelter, Mechanicsville, Va.; Mess Management Specialist 
Seaman Lakeina Monique Francis, Woodleaf, N.C.; Information Systems 
Technician Seaman Timothy Lee Gauna, Rice, Texas; Engineman 2nd Class 
Mark Ian Nieto, Fond Du Lac, Wis.; Electronics Warfare Technician 
3rd Class Ronald Scott Owens, Vero Beach, Fla.; Engineman Fireman 
Joshua Langdon Parlett, Churchville, Md.; Fireman Apprentice Patrick 
Howard Roy, Cornwall on Hudson, N.Y.; Electronics Warfare Technician 
2nd Class Kevin Shawn Rux, Portland, N.D.; Mess Management Specialist 
3rd Class Ronchester Mananga Santiago, Kingsville, Texas, and Fireman 
Gary Graham Swenchonis, Jr., Rockport, Texas.