When an explosion rocked Britain's embassy in Sana early Friday, the 
blast sent off echoes of a murky terrorist underworld in Yemen whose 
activities have been linked to suspected Islamic extremists in Britain. 
Britain's ambiguous ties with Yemen date to its occupation of Aden 
in 1839 while the British and the Ottoman empires were vying for influence 
in a far-flung corner of the Arabian peninsula. With the opening of 
the Suez Canal in 1869, however, the port became a vital link in the 
sea routes between Britain and its imperial outpost in India. British 
rule in Aden came to an end only in 1967 after fighting. In more recent 
times, experts said, it was Britain's role as an ally of the United 
States and as a symbol of Western maneuvering in Iraq and elsewhere 
in the Middle East that made it a potential target in the region. 
``If the British are coming under fire, it is nothing to do with the 
past,'' said Dr. Gerd Nonneman, the director of the British Society 
for Middle Eastern Studies, who specializes in Yemen. ``It's everything 
to do with the policy in Iraq and support for the United States.'' 
Yet, Britain's relationship with Yemen has a particular profile of 
its own, linked to the imam of a north London mosque in the Finsbury 
Park district, Abu Hamza al-Masri, whose stepson is one of five British 
Muslims serving jail terms in Yemen. The country's pro-Western government 
last year accused them in a trial of planning a terrorist bombing 
campaign. During the trial, Yemeni authorities accused Abu Hamza of 
being allied with a Yemeni extremist group known as the Islamic Army 
of Aden-Abyan. The group's leader, Abu al-Hassan al-Mihdar, was executed 
after a separate trial, also last year. Citing anti-terrorism laws, 
British police investigated Abu Hamza, who has said he fought with 
the Afghan mujahedeen. The police dropped their inquiries because 
of lack of evidence. But the events that led up to the trial gave 
some inkling of the ability of small extremist groups to operate in 
Yemen or penetrate the country in preparation for a major attack. 
``Yemeni terrorism has been vastly exaggerated,'' Nonneman said in 
a telephone interview from Lancaster University, where he teaches. 
``There are various groups inside the country, as in lots of countries, 
maybe with only two or three people who might call themselves anything 
from Jihad to Hezbollah,'' he said, referring to the Arabic words 
for ``holy war'' and ``party of God.'' ``The difference in Yemen is 
that the government doesn't control all the territory and therefore 
does not get access to where these groups might be hiding out,'' he 
said. He drew a distinction between Friday's embassy bombing and the 
deadly attack Thursday on the U.S. destroyer Cole in the Yemeni port 
of Aden. While the embassy bomb could well have been Yemeni-inspired, 
he said, the attack on the Cole required a level of intelligence-gathering 
and technical expertise ``that indicated that it was not completely 
home-grown. ``But the reason why it happens in Yemen is because these 
groups can get access and the government doesn't have control over 
the territory,'' he said. And, with passions heightened throughout 
the Arab world by the Palestinian-Israeli clashes, he said, ``the 
Americans are seen as the supporters of Israel, and these extremist 
groups find their room for maneuver is increasing.'' Britain's most 
recent brush with Yemeni terrorism dates to a bizarre saga that began 
in 1998. Late on Dec. 23 or early on Dec. 24 of that year, a Daewoo 
rental car carrying three occupants crashed after speeding away from 
a police road check. The Yemeni police said they found weapons and 
explosives in the car. Immediately afterward, five British Muslims 
and a man with a French passport were arrested. Just days after the 
British Muslims were arrested, 16 British tourists traveling in Yemen's 
Abyan region were kidnapped in what the Yemeni authorities called 
an attempt to force the release of the Britons. On Dec. 29, 1998, 
one day after the kidnapping, Yemeni forces tried to free the British 
hostages by force, and four of the Britons died in a gun battle. Two 
of the kidnappers were killed, and three were arrested. Then, on Jan. 
26, 1999, Yemeni forces besieged a mountain hideout and arrested six 
more suspects in the kidnapping, including three Britons with family 
and other ties to Abu Hamza. In the ensuing trials last year, Yemeni 
prosecutors sought to link the British Muslims and Abu Hamza in north 
London with the Yemeni extremists who kidnapped the British tourists. 
But the hearings remained murky because of reporting restrictions 
and frequent allegations by defendants that ``confessions'' had been 
extracted under torture. Newspaper reports quoted Abu Hamza in London 
as threatening reprisals against British and U.S. interests in Yemen. 
According to the British Foreign Office, five of the British Muslims 
are still in prison in Yemen serving sentences of between three and 
seven years. Two were freed after the 1999 trials and one was released 
during the trials. Officials said that after the trial, there had 
been a threat to bomb a British consulate in Yemen. A Foreign Office 
spokeswoman said only that a bomb had been thrown over the embassy 
wall and that a judgment on whether this was a terrorist attack would 
depend on the outcome of an investigation in Yemen by British police.