ADEN, Yemen (AP) _ U.S. investigators converged Friday at this port 
where an apparent bomb attack on a refueling U.S. destroyer killed 
17 sailors. Military planes evacuated the 33 injured to Germany and 
the east African country of Djibouti. More than 200 miles away in 
Yemen's capital, San`a, an explosion rocked the British Embassy on 
Friday. Windows shattered, but nobody was hurt. Britain's foreign 
secretary said a bomb may have been flung into embassy grounds. Navy 
officials in the United States, meanwhile, said explosives experts 
who examined the 8,600-ton USS Cole's damaged hull have concluded 
that Thursday's blast came from an external source, bolstering the 
contention that it was a terrorist attack. U.S. officials say suicide 
bombers blew up a small boat next to the destroyer, ripping a hole 
30 feet high and 40 feet wide at the ship's waterline. Western diplomats 
in Yemen said the warship's explosion seemed to be the work of a well-organized 
group with good connections in the port of Aden who might have provided 
the bombers with some logistical support. The diplomats, insisting 
on anonymity, said the boat used by suicide bombers was similar to 
boats used by port authorities to guide vessels into port or facilitate 
ships with refueling. Seven sailors were confirmed dead and 10 missing 
since the blast were presumed dead, according to U.S. Navy officials 
in Washington. ``We are still conducting a search for the 10 missing 
sailors,'' Lt. Cmdr. Daren Pelkie said at the Bahrain base of the 
U.S. Navy 5th Fleet. Pelkie said more than 30 sailors had been flown 
to Germany for medical attention; they were expected to arrive before 
midnight Friday. Three seriously injured sailors were being kept in 
a French military hospital in Djibouti as they were unable to travel. 
The bodies of five soldiers arrived Friday evening at the Ramstein 
Air Base in Germany on their way back to the United States. Light 
rain fell as an Air Force honor guard silently transferred the caskets 
draped in U.S. flags from an Air Force jet into separate hearses. 
Flags at the base in western Germany flew at half staff, and sailors 
in dress blues stood on the tarmac during the ceremony. American investigators 
as well as U.S. Marines and soldiers filled Aden, bringing in equipment 
to search for clues beneath the water near the USS Cole. Sniffer dogs 
also were seen being brought to the area. The HMS Marlborough, a British 
frigate, was heading to Yemen from the Gulf to provide technical assistance, 
Dudley said. He said investigators may keep working at the site another 
two days. The USS Cole, one of the world's most advanced warships, 
was left slightly tilted in Aden harbor. ``The ship took (in) some 
water and we are trying to dewater it. But, generally, it is seaworthy 
and we will tow it to the United States,'' said Dudley, of the Bahrain-based 
U.S. 5th Fleet. The Cole is a $1 billion guided missile destroyer 
home-ported at Norfolk, Va. It was heading with a crew of about 350 
to the Gulf for maritime intercept operations in support of the U.N. 
embargo against Iraq. U.S. embassies in the Middle East said Friday 
they had been ordered by the U.S. State Department to cease public 
operations until Monday in light of developments in Yemen and escalating 
violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Anti-American sentiment 
has been running high in the Arab world, where protesters have been 
condemning the United States during demonstrations against Israel's 
actions in two weeks of deadly clashes in Jerusalem and the Palestinian 
territories. In Washington, President Clinton said Thursday that the 
USS Cole explosion appeared to be an act of terrorism, the worst against 
the U.S. military since the bombing of an Air Force barracks in Saudi 
Arabia in 1996 that killed 19 troops. ``We will find out who was responsible 
and hold them accountable,'' Clinton pledged. There have been no claims 
of claims of responsibility that have gained widespread credibility. 
However, Omar Bakri Mohammed, a leader of Al-Muhajiroun, a London-based 
Arab militant group, said Friday he had received an international 
call claiming responsibility for the attack on the American ship. 
It was in the name of ``Muhammad's Army,'' an extremist group previously 
known to be active only in Chechnya and Dagestan. Bakri, who is known 
to have ties to terror suspect Osama bin Laden and extremist groups, 
said he was skeptical of the validity of the claim but that some of 
his skepticism waned after Friday's bomb at the British embassy because 
the group promised more attacks in its call Thursday. It warned that 
``strikes will continue until the Muslim land and Palestine are liberated,'' 
he said. Meanwhile, a close associate of bin Laden urged Muslims worldwide 
to attack U.S. and Israeli targets to avenge the deaths of Palestinians 
killed in bloody and protracted clashes with Israel. Ayman el Zawahri, 
who was found guilty in absentia of the 1981 assassination of Egyptian 
President Anwar Sadat, faxed his call for jihad or holy war to the 
Islamabad bureau of the Abu Dhabi channel of the United Arab Emirates 
Television, bureau chief Jamal Ismael said. On Thursday, Clinton dispatched 
to Yemen investigators from the FBI, the State Department and the 
Pentagon and ordered a heightened state of alert for all U.S. military 
installations around the world. Yemeni officials privately rejected 
the accusations of a suicide attack, saying a joint investigation 
is needed to determine the cause. President Ali Abdullah Saleh on 
Friday ordered his security staff to quickly investigate the blast, 
though Dudley indicated the Americans are conducting their own probe. 
Yemenis are helping with security, he said. ``The investigation is 
being done by our team and is being conducted quickly and fairly,'' 
Dudley said. ``I can't go into the details.'' Yemeni police officials 
said a number of people had been detained for questioning. The officials, 
speaking on condition of anonymity, did not say how many or if any 
were considered suspects. Yemeni police and soldiers sealed off the 
port area, preventing vessels from approaching the warship. Journalists 
were barred from the area. Yemen became a more frequent refueling 
stop for Navy ships after a December 1997 U.S. decision to open up 
contacts with the country. The impoverished country on the tip of 
the Arabian Peninsula on the Red Sea is known for its anarchic politics, 
streak of fundamentalism and routine snatches of Western hostages 
who generally are exchanged unharmed for government pledges to provide 
basic services. Islamic extremists also have been active in Yemen, 
including the Yemeni Islamic Jihad and the Aden-Abyan Islamic Army. 
However, Yemeni Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Iryani said in March 
that the United States' most-wanted terror suspect, bin Laden, at 
one time had ``colleagues'' in Yemen, but now ``has no place in Yemen, 
no military camps.'' The United States accuses bin Laden of organizing 
a militant network with followers across the Mideast, including Yemen, 
and says he masterminded 1998 bombings against the U.S. Embassies 
in Kenya and Tanzania, which killed 224 people.