you have a child in the service and the waiting is help. it today, 
the first bodies, seven sailors are confirmed dead 10 presumed dead. 
arrived at that very familiar stopover air base at ramstein in germany 
on their way home. from ramstein, the bodies will go to the cole's 
home port, norfolk, virginia, just as fleet week is beginning to celebrate 
the anniversary of the american navy. celebration will also be commemoration. 
in yemen today, where the ship was attacked, the deliberate, well-organized 
familiar effort to find out who did it, and how it happened. abc morton 
dean is in aden. the damaged ship, the huge hole in its side now covered 
by canvas, sat in calm seas today. unseen from land was a frenzy of 
activity, including divers searching for bodies and searching for 
clues -- it mift rivaled the explosion that plu apart the federal 
office acknowledge in oklahoma city. only such a potent force, they 
theorize, could have ripped "cole's" steel hull, collapsed some of 
the war ship's interior sections, and destroyed some of its vital 
communications. investigators are heading into this steamy port city 
to begin analyzing the theories while assembling the facts. a u.s. 
official here praised the yemen government, saying it was doing its 
part. the emknees have been very cooperative in providing additional 
security, both in the harerber, on land and to our people. in recent 
months, there have been been anti-u.s. and anti-israel dmon traition 
straitionness yemen. despite efforts to establish more friendly ties. 
one major factor 0 in the improved relationship between the united 
states and yemen involves iraq. yemen agreed that when the u.s. intercepted 
ships suspected of violating the trade embargo against iraq, the ships 
could be brought into port here. the navy said today, all of the bodies 
recovered so far are on 0 their way home. and all of the injured have 
now been transferred elsewhere for further medical care. morton dean, 
abc news, yemen.