so what happens to the coal now and how might the navy be able to 
protect other ships against this? john m wethy joins us from the pentagon 
tonig. peter, first word the "uss cole" had been instruct by terrorists 
came from a u.s. army major. who had been sent out to the ship by 
the embassy as part of a greeting party. it just s happened he had 
a cell phone in his pocket 0, when all communications were knocked 
out and there was chaos on the ship, that cell phone became the only 
link to the outside world. as badly damaged as the "uss cole" may 
be, navy officials made it clear today that this $1 billion ship will 
not be scrapped. the crew will absolutely remain with the ship for 
all that aren't injured, and i think we'd have to drag them away. 
a preliminary inspection indicates that the keel of the ship was not 
damaged. if the ship is not broken, that is the keel is not broken, 
you can repair the ship with me ease. the more pressing question is 
what to do about security for other american ships in the region. 
the middle east is an area that is filled with risks. not just in 
yemen, but in other countries as well. the navy will now re-examine 
security that is provided for american warships in every port in the 
world. one small fix is likely to be more armed sailors on deck. but 
officials admit what happened in yemen, an attack so well disgazed, 
may be impossible to defend against, and worse, they say, it could 
happen again. so many of these investigations have started, and people 
become very pessimistic, because ultimately they haven't been able 
to feigned what they were looking for in terms of culprits. do they 
go off with any sense of timism this time? they go off with a sense 
of determination, peter. i think actually in some of the investigations, 
like the u.s. embassy bombings in africa, they feel they were suck 
until in pointing who was behind that. many thanks john m wethy at 
the pentagon this evening. most of those tailors who died or can't 
be found were young. but all over the country, whether they were young 
or old, the wait by their families was horrendous. here's abc's john 
martin. in dallas last night, the family of timothy gauna fearfully 
waited to hear the news. then, two navy officers arrived and went 
inside to tell them their son was missing. crying an uncle came out 
to speak through his tears. today he was listed as missing but presumed 
dead. another family refused to believe that their sailor daughter 
lakeina francis was dead. we know that she's missing, but as a family 
as a whole, we're not giving up faith. in georgia, sharon gunn's death 
was understood as a consequence of family duty. his dad spent 21 years 
in the navy, retired from the navy and i guess he wanted to do what 
his dad did. lake i said, he was a great guy. in san diego, she was 
a track star, her death stunned her coach. she overcame a lot of obstacles. 
i was proud of her for going to the navy. sailor ken clodfelter's 
family learned only he was missing and remembered his reassuring words 
he said mom, will you stop worrying, we're the most advanced ship, 
there's no way they can hurt this ship. we're ready, willing and able 
to take care of things. and, well, it shows that we're not. some families 
were so relieved. kathy and david huffman. thank god. is he okay? 
okay. thank you. sailor jennifer's grandmother. pure hell. because 
i -- you don't know what to could. and then good news. the last letter 
i got from her, she said i wish grandma i had one of your hugs. she's 
going to get them. by day's end as the pentagon revised the death 
toll to 17, hope was fading for those reported missing. all are now 
presumed dead. john martin, abc news, washington.