Slobodan Milosevic's government threatened to crack down Tuesday on 
opposition supporters in Yugoslavia, calling them subversive elements 
waging special warfare against the country and trying to trigger chaos. 
The new measures, which included directives to force miners in the 
Kolubara coal mine complex to return to work, suggest the government 
could use force against those it accuses of ``threatening life and 
property.'' In a statement, the government also threatened to shut 
down ``media which are financed from abroad and are trying to trigger 
unrest by spreading lies and initiating bloodshed'' _ a clear reference 
to Serbia's fledgling independent media. The moves came after Yugoslavia's 
army chief, Gen. Nebojsa Pavkovic, urged striking coal miners to return 
to work, marking the first time Milosevic called on the country's 
military to help end current protests aimed at ousting him. Pavkovic 
is considered one of the most loyal allies of Milosevic, who used 
the military in 1991 to put down massive street riots against his 
rule. The general's unprecedented negotiating efforts to resolve the 
impasse at Kolubara came as a second day of blockades, strikes and 
walkouts gripped Yugoslavia. After the general failed to resolve the 
impasse, the government struck back at opposition-run cities and towns 
across country by introducing four-hour power cuts allegedly triggered 
by the coal strike. By noon Tuesday, parts of capital Belgrade, as 
well as Serbia's second and third largest cities, Nis and Novi Sad, 
and three other towns were without electricity. The army talks with 
the miners came in the wake of Milosevic's lambasting of opposition 
leaders, labeling them puppets of the West. The Yugoslav president's 
challengers staged protests around the country to press him to concede 
defeat in recent elections. Milosevic admits opposition candidate 
Vojislav Kostunica won more votes but says he fell short of a majority, 
meaning a second round runoff will be held Sunday. The opposition 
insists that Kostunica won outright, a claim supported by the United 
States and Western European governments; Kostunica has said he will 
not participate in any runoff. The campaign of civil disobedience 
has involved hundred of thousands of people and represented the most 
serious challenge yet to Milosevic's 13-year rule. The protests even 
reached his hometown of Pozarevac, where 20,000 massed Monday on main 
roads. By daylight Tuesday, convoys of trucks and private cars cut 
off traffic for two hours just outside of the capital, Belgrade. High 
school students blocked Belgrade's Slavija square with garbage containers 
_ as police displaying batons watched _ and tens of thousands of opposition 
supporters marched to the statistics bureau, which counted the votes 
from last month's election. Marchers chanted, ``Thieves! Thieves!'' 
Belgrade police turned back two opposition convoys en route to block 
a key bridge north of the capital and the main highway leading to 
the west of the city _ the first sign Milosevic's security forces 
were getting nervous. A cordon of riot police stopped about 50,000 
people who tried to march in the direction of Milosevic's exclusive 
Dedinje district. Protesters went on marching in another direction. 
Another road leading into the capital was blocked near Mount Avala, 
just south of Belgrade, and barricades remained up around the central 
town of Cacak where almost all shops remained shut with signs ``Closed 
Because of Robbery'' _ referring to Milosevic's stealing of the elections 
_ posted on the windows. One of the country's main highways was also 
closed early Tuesday, the state Tanjug agency said. The state bus 
company rerouted regular bus lines to avoid the blockades. Police 
arrested two trade unionists in Belgrade's bus company Tuesday morning, 
radio Index reported. Striking railroad workers cut ties linking Yugoslavia's 
dominant republic, Serbia, with its smaller republic, Montenegro. 
Buses traveled only to the border of the two republics. Chris Patten, 
the European Union's foreign affairs commissioner, said Tuesday that 
he hoped the popular backlash against Milosevic will prove ``irreversible.'' 
``I suppose he may be able to hang on by his fingertips but I think 
the writing is on the wall now,'' Patten said in an interview with 
BBC radio. ``The brave people of Serbia have made their views pretty 
clear.'' The opposition called for people to rally in Belgrade on 
Thursday, in a final push to drive Milosevic from power.