Elsewhere in the Middle East, officials from the FBI and the CIA and 
marine anti-terrorist specialists have arrived in Yemen to investigate 
yesterday's explosion that crippled the US navy destroyer, Cole. Seven 
sailors are confirmed dead and ten of the missing are now presumed 
dead. The wounded have been evacuated to Germany and to neighboring 
Djibouti. Djibouti is where until last year the navy conducted its 
Red Sea refueling operations. John Moore, a former government intelligence 
analyst says it was a mistake for those operations to move to Aden. 
I tend to fault the US policy that brought the refueling activity 
from Djibouti to Aden, given the abundance of threat indicators in 
the country, that being Yemen. It has been known for sometime that 
various groups, either Palestinians, North African groups, some of 
Bin Laden's men actively reside in Yemen. So again, I really question 
the wisdom of that policy. You say that the US was using Djibouti 
for more or less the same purposes that, for the last year or so, 
they have been using Yemen, that they knew that there was a much more 
anti American atmosphere in Yemen. Why then did they go there? Did 
they have some other overriding concerns? The US has been attempting 
to support movements for democratization in Yemen and there has been 
some attempts to buttress the government of Ali Abdullah Saleh and 
I believe that this is directly tied into that. There were elections 
held, I believe, a year or so ago. The Americans were involved as 
far as assessing and evaluating the validity of the elections, and 
I think this grew out of that policy of supporting the Yemeni government. 
But again the problem that the Yemeni government faces is they don't 
actively control the countryside. That is split between various tribal 
groups and there is also, as I mentioned, extremists that look at 
Yemen as, say, heaven. They have been there for well on 20 years, 
various groups at different times, of course. In terms of talking 
about Yemen and giving us a feeling for what is interesting about 
this country, another thing that is interesting about it would seem 
to be that this is a country that had pretty much sided, as I understand 
it, with Iraq during the Gulf war. Is that true and if so why is the 
United States involved with it now? That is true. The government of 
Yemen, led by the current President Ali Abdullah Saleh, did exhibit 
pro-Iraqi sentiment during the Gulf war. As far as the reasoning behind 
why the US is trying to rebuild its ties with Yemen, again the US 
policy is to try to build a bridge with as many countries as possible 
within a region, particularly the Islamic world. We hope the countries 
can become potential friends, if not allies, in the region. So there 
is a bit of, OK, yes we don't agree with what you did in the past, 
but let's try to put that behind us and look forward. And what have 
the developments there led you to believe about the wisdom of that 
policy? The wisdom of trying to establish ties with the Yemeni government, 
I can certainly see the logic behind that. Again my specific question 
comes in to why they moved the refueling activity from Djibouti to 
Aden, given the level of threat in the country. It is one thing to 
build relationships, it is another thing to put actually your men 
and women on the front line, when they didn't have to be there. John 
Moore is a research analyst at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis. 
He joined us in our studios here in Boston. Thank you very much. Thank 
you.