Accompanying last week's downfall of Yugoslavia's President Slobodan 
Milosevic was a drumbeat. We are not speaking metaphorically as in 
a drumbeat of freedom. We are talking about the real thing. The World's 
Stephen Snyder explains. This is the sound of democracy, Yugoslavian 
style. Veteran rock drummer Drugly Chorichech was frequently seen 
marching at the front of Belgrade protest parades, trailed by enthusiastic 
amateur drummers. In August, Chorichech and many of his musician colleagues 
joined forces with Yugoslavia's non-governmental organizations or 
NGOs to galvanize the youth vote in advance of the September 24th 
Presidential election. Echoing MTV's hip, outreach effort 'Rock the 
Vote', they call their project 'Rock for Vote'. The general idea was 
to get all the very important, very good and very young rock bands 
in Serbia to play together in all big cities in Serbia. Peter Yan 
Yodowich of Belgrade's independent radio TV Ponchevo said the concerts 
were staged for free. It was the idea, you know, just through the 
music, through the culture, to provoke young people to go out and 
vote. Yan Yodowich says that when it came to picking who would play, 
bands associated with the Milosevic government were not invited to 
apply. The organizers pick up only the best who've never had any contact 
with the regime. The roster of bands passing this political acid test 
was pretty wide ranging. Metal, Reggae and all rock bands, even a 
Serbian-Irish band performing jigs and reals. It was a travelling 
festival with ten of Belgrade's top bands going from town-to-town 
on a 24-city tour. One of the organizers Dragon Ambersage of Belgrade's 
Independent Radio B92 says, they had no trouble drawing crowds. People 
were literally starving for anything that is cheerful and have a certain 
message in the lyrics. People came to hear the bands but once they 
were there many also met the representatives of some 30 NGOs that 
set up their tables at every stop. Long established human rights and 
feminist groups stood alongside young activist groups such as Outpour, 
handing out literature and presenting a unified message. There is 
only one word, which is obviously in everybody's mind and it's the 
need for change. All the NGOs just said we are going to help this 
social change happen by joining together all our forces just to explain 
that it is so important to get out and vote. And vote they did. In 
the September 24th Yugoslavian Presidential election record numbers 
of first-time voters, young people ages 18 to 22 showed up at the 
polling places and cast their ballots. 'Rock for Vote' organizers 
were encouraged and B92s Dragon Ambersage says they intend to continue 
to support independent voices. Because of the future of this, what 
we are trying to maintain is to keep up with the independent position 
and be free to criticize anyone that we feel needs to be criticized. 
Radio Ponchevo's Peter Yanyodiwich believes the bands will play an 
active part in Yugoslavia's democratic future. All those kids are, 
musicians are, completely independent and I am really sure that in 
the next month and year they will be also criticizing this new regime 
if they do something bad. And the new regime better listen up. An 
estimated 150,000 people came to the 'Rock for Vote' concerts to hear 
music that captures the frustration of Serbian youth. 'Eyesburn', 
one of the younger groups on the tour, sings about growing up in a 
part of Belgrade so bleak that buses wont stop there at night. B92's 
Ambersage says the bands metal-edged reggae inspired anthems wreaked 
havoc among the audience. Music like this may have served as the rallying 
cry driving young people to vote and may be to start the revolution 
that brought Yugoslavia's new government to power. For The World I 
am Stephen Snyder.