Kidnapping tribes, gun-toting children and alleged links to Mideast 
terrorist groups give Yemen an outlaw image that seems incompatible 
with its recent role as a refueling point for U.S. military vessels. 
Now, with the destroyer USS Cole crippled by an apparent suicide blast 
and the bodies of American sailors being sent home for burial, serious 
questions are emerging about the decision and whether Yemen will be 
stricken from the itinerary of U.S. warships. ``This is obviously 
of concern,'' said Lt. Terrence Dudley, a spokesman for the U.S. 5th 
Fleet based in the Persian Gulf nation of Bahrain. ``There will definitely 
be a review of the use of Yemen for such purposes,'' said Paul Beaver, 
spokesman for the Jane's Group of security affairs researchers. Yemeni 
President Ali Abdullah Saleh denies terrorists were behind the explosion 
Thursday and insists his country has no ``terrorist elements.'' On 
Friday, an explosion hit the British Embassy in his capital San`a, 
200 miles from Aden. No one was hurt in what Britain's foreign secretary 
said was a bombing. Yemen is part of a network for a host of terrorist 
groups, including Osama bin Laden's, according to Western sources. 
The United States accuses bin Laden of masterminding the bombings 
of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania two years ago that killed 
224 people. The site of the Cole attack, the port of Aden, is a base 
for the militant Islamic Army of Aden, founded by bin Laden's brother, 
Muhammad Khalifa, said Vincent Cannistraro, a former chief of counterterrorism 
at the CIA. The group's leader, Zein al-Abidine al-Midhar, was executed 
by firing squad two years ago in the hostage-taking of two Americans 
and 14 other Western tourists. Al-Midhar's successor, Hatim bin Farid, 
is facing trial for planning to kidnap foreign tourists and attack 
government targets. Bin Laden has sharply criticized the use of Yemen 
as a refueling spot for U.S. military ships, Beaver said. Hamas and 
the Iranian-backed Palestine Islamic Jihad group also have a presence 
in Yemen. It's also become a center for another rogue trade: abducting 
foreigners. Kidnappers use their hostages as bargaining chips to free 
jailed comrades or extract promises of police tolerance for illegal 
trades. Most of the captives, including Polish and U.S. diplomats, 
were released unharmed by northern tribesmen _ whose culture encourages 
ownership of weapons for boys as young as 10. Yemen's wild reputation 
actually attracts a certain breed of tourists, who come to see tribesmen 
swaggering down the streets with guns tucked into waistbands next 
to traditional curved daggers known as jambiyas. Some may even hope 
to be kidnapped, hearing they would be treated as honored tribal guests 
and released after a few days. But four Western tourists captured 
by the Aden-Abyan group were killed in a botched rescue attempt by 
security forces in 1998. The government responded with tough laws 
allowing execution for kidnappers. So far, three people have been 
put to death. Despite some daring visitors, the kidnapping threat 
has ravaged Yemen's small, but economically important, tourism industry. 
``We all fear that Yemen will be punished economically by this latest 
tragedy,'' said Bashrahell Hisham Bashraheel, an Aden-based correspondent 
for Yemen's largest newspaper, Al-Ayyam.