The Pentagon will review whether Navy ships in foreign ports should 
tighten security policies in light of the apparent terrorist bombing 
of the USS Cole in Yemen. The Navy was concentrating Friday mainly 
on restoring power and communications aboard the Cole, recovering 
missing sailors in the flooded ship and helping the crew's relatives 
back home. But officials said the explosion is certain to lead to 
a review of security procedures and whether Yemen's main port, Aden, 
should still be used as a ship refueling stop. ``Every tragedy like 
this provokes a period of reflection,'' Pentagon spokesman Kenneth 
Bacon said. ``And there will certainly be review and reflection after 
this one, and we will look at our security procedures.'' Bacon said 
the Navy had not made a decision on whether to use Aden again as a 
refueling stop. Ships traveling in groups usually have an oiler with 
them to provide fuel, but ships sailing alone, as was the Cole, normally 
have to make port visits to refuel. Aden had been used as a refueling 
point numerous times this year. Defense Secretary William Cohen, meanwhile, 
decided to curtail a Latin America tour that was scheduled to start 
Sunday. To focus on the Cole, Cohen dropped plans to visit the capitals 
of Brazil, Chile and Argentina, although a meeting of Latin American 
defense ministers in Manaus, Brazil, remains on his schedule for now. 
Bacon said Cohen plans to attend a Navy memorial for victims of the 
Cole attack, likely to be held Wednesday in Norfolk, Va. Bacon said 
President Clinton also may attend. The Navy also will review the way 
in which it contracts with local harbor authorities for the kind of 
help it required in Aden, Bacon said. Harbor boats were helping the 
Cole attach mooring lines at a fuel facility in the middle of the 
harbor when one of the boats pulled alongside the warship and apparently 
detonated a bomb. Arrangements for harbor assistance were, as a matter 
of normal practice, made through the U.S. Embassy in the Yemeni capital, 
San`a. Bacon said the Navy already began its investigation of the 
incident. ``I'm sure there will be other reviews in the coming days, 
and I think we'll be able to announce something soon,'' he said. The 
Navy said the casualty toll stood Friday at seven confirmed dead and 
10 missing and presumed dead. Of 38 injured, five were returned to 
duty, and the 33 others were either flown or were being prepared to 
fly to a U.S. medical facility in Germany. Most of the rest of the 
crew remained aboard the Cole. ``We don't want to destroy hope, but 
we don't want to create false hope, either,'' said Adm. Vernon Clark, 
the chief of naval operations. Other Navy officials said the assumption 
is that the missing are dead, but there will be no formal change in 
their status until they are recovered, since the bodies are known 
to be inside the ship. The Navy released the names of the dead and 
missing Friday. All but one is from the enlisted crew. Two are female, 
the first time a female sailor has been killed in hostile action aboard 
a U.S. combat ship. In an interview with The Associated Press, Clark 
said Navy bomb experts determined without doubt Friday the explosion 
that tore through the Cole was an external blast. He said that information 
all but confirms the explosion was a deliberate act of sabotage, not 
an accident. ``I've said all along, from where I stand, in my view 
this was clearly a terrorist act,'' Clark said. The explosives experts 
who examined the ship estimated the hole in the port, or left, side 
to be 30 feet high and 40 feet wide. ``There had been some talk that 
this was a blast internal to the ship; their conclusion is: no way,'' 
Clark said. ``Clearly it was a blast from outside.''