Increased violence in the Middle East and an attack on a U.S. destroyer 
prompted the State Department Friday to close 37 U.S. embassies and 
consulates for the weekend. ``Obviously, in light of the history of 
attacks, you have to be concerned of additional attacks,'' State Department 
spokesman Richard Boucher said. ``We have also sent messages to embassies 
worldwide to be careful, to be vigilant and, in all these situations, 
to keep in very close touch with the American communities.'' At the 
same time, the spokesman said the closings did not mean the United 
States was withdrawing in the face of terrorism. All U.S. posts in 
the Middle East, the Persian Gulf region and north Africa were closed 
to public business until Monday, as will those in Nigeria, Tanzania, 
Senegal, Mauritania, Djibouti, South Africa, Kenya, Pakistan and Sierra 
Leone. In each case, U.S. personnel will remain on the job to look 
out for the interests of Americans, a department spokesman, Philip 
Reeker, said. ``We will continue to evaluate the situation,'' he said. 
The announcement followed the bombing of the USS Cole, one of the 
Navy's most advanced warships, Thursday during a refueling stop in 
Yemen and increasing violence on the West Bank, in Gaza and in Israel. 
At the White House, spokesman Jake Siewert said President Clinton 
talked by telephone with Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and 
King Mohammed of Morocco. ``We're continuing to work with everyone 
in the region there to do everything we can to break the cycle of 
violence and try to defuse tension in that part of the world,'' Siewert 
said. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright talked to President Hosni 
Mubarak of Egypt and Foreign Ministers Thorbjorn Jagland of Norway, 
Joschka Fischer of Germany, Igor Ivanov of Russia and Habib Ben Yahia 
of Tunisia, Boucher said. In a letter sent to President Clinton on 
Friday, 90 senators expressed their solidarity with Israel and criticized 
Yasser Arafat. They said they were dismayed the Palestinian leader 
and the Palestine Liberation Organization ``would allow violence by 
Palestinians to be carried out without restraint or comment.'' The 
senators said Arafat apparently either was trying to use violence 
to ``extort'' further concessions from Israel or he intended to end 
the peace process. In the House, 64 members introduced a resolution 
condemning Arafat and calling for support for Israel. Accusing the 
Palestinian leadership of encouraging the violence, Rep. Benjamin 
A. Gilman, R-N.Y., chairman of the House International Relations Committee, 
said Arafat was attempting ``to dictate Israeli concessions at the 
negotiating table through the unbridled use of violence, and, most 
appallingly, through the mainuplation of young children as `martyrs 
in training,'''