The USS Cole is a ``ship that was built to fight'' and will be returned 
to the fleet after the damage from a terrorist bomb is repaired, the 
Navy says. The challenge now is how to tow the $1 billion destroyer 
that has a gaping 30-by-40-foot hole in its hull _ and where to do 
the repairs. ``This is a very damaged ship,'' Rear Adm. Joseph C. 
Henry, head of Navy personnel and policy division, said Friday. Divers 
have already been in the waters of the Gulf of Aden, surveying damage 
to the guided missile destroyer, he said. And the rest of a team of 
several dozen divers, engineers and others experts was expected to 
arrive at the scene in the next few days to assess exactly what is 
wrong with the Cole _ it's hull, main structures, drive shaft and 
so on, said Navy spokesman Cmdr. Greg Smith. Then the team will recommend 
to the Pentagon ways the ship might be repaired enough to move, and 
where it might be moved to, Smith said. ``I would expect in the next 
week or so they will be able to ... know what they have to do to fix 
it, and perhaps even have completed the repairs enough to move it 
to a more substantial facility,'' said Pentagon spokesman Kenneth 
Bacon. Complicating their work, said Smith, is the fact that it's 
a crime scene, meaning the FBI won't let the Navy do anything to the 
ship until agents are satisfied they've removed bomb fragments or 
any other evidence that might lead to the terrorists. The Navy could 
bring to Yemen a floating dock _ a structure large enough to lift 
the 505-foot-long, 8,600-ton ship out of the water for towing to a 
ship repair facility, he said. The 4-year-old ship is young by Navy 
standards, where the life expectancy of such a vessel is 30 to 50 
years. ``The USS Cole is a ship that was built to fight,'' Adm. Robert 
J. Natter, commander of the Atlantic Fleet, said in a news conference 
Friday in Norfolk, Va. ``We still have a ship that is very capable 
and we obviously want to return that ship to full duty as soon as 
possible.'' As of Friday afternoon, the Cole was considered stable 
and had some communications capability, Henry said. The crew had restored 
some of its lost power as well. Two other Navy ships _ the frigate 
USS Hawes the destroyer USS Donald Cook _ were sent to the port of 
Aden to help the Cole and its crew. ``Obviously, the crew left on 
the USS Cole is tired and distraught,'' Henry said. ``And so the crews 
of the new ships can help do some of the work that's required to keep 
the ship afloat and to deal with the damage to the hull. So it's important 
that they have reinforcements there.''