With the crippled USS Cole listing slightly in the harbor, American 
investigators, Marines and soldiers swarmed into this deep-water port 
Friday, bringing sniffer dogs and sophisticated equipment to search 
for clues in the blast that killed 17 American sailors. Wounded U.S. 
sailors and the bodies of some of the dead were flown to Germany en 
route home; the Navy said the ship would be repaired and stay in service. 
The Navy released the names of the 17 dead on Friday. All but one 
were from the enlisted ranks and two were women. Lt. Terrence Dudley, 
a U.S. Navy spokesman in Aden, said Navy chaplains had arrived to 
console survivors. ``I'm just numb. It hasn't sunk in yet,'' said 
Patty Wibberley, mother of Seaman Craig Wibberley, 19, killed in the 
explosion. His duties had included raising and lowering the destroyer's 
small anchor. Western diplomats said the attack was apparently the 
work of a well-organized group. Bomb experts quickly determined Thursday's 
explosion ``was a blast from the outside,'' Adm. Vernon Clark, the 
chief naval officer, said in an interview with The Associated Press 
in Washington. His comments countered any suggestion weaponry aboard 
the ship might have been responsible. U.S. officials say suicide bombers 
blew up a small boat next to the 8,600-ton destroyer, ripping a 30-by-40-foot 
hole at the water line. Western diplomats in Yemen said the explosion 
seemed to be the work of a well-organized group with good connections 
in the port of Aden who might have provided the bombers with logistical 
support. The diplomats, insisting on anonymity, said the boat used 
by the bombers was similar to boats used by port authorities to guide 
vessels into port or help ships with refueling. If terrorism is proven, 
the toll would make it the worst such attack on the U.S. military 
since the bombing of an Air Force barracks in Saudi Arabia in 1996 
that killed 19 miiltary personnel. More than 200 miles away, in the 
capital, San`a, an explosion on Friday rocked the British Embassy. 
Windows shattered but nobody was hurt. Britain's foreign secretary 
said a bomb may have been flung into embassy grounds. Authorities 
were investigating. Anti-Western sentiment has been running high in 
the Arab world, with protesters condemning the United States in particular 
during demonstrations against Israel's use of force in two weeks of 
deadly clashes in Jerusalem and the Palestinian territories. ``The 
world should not underestimate the anger of Palestinians at this moment,'' 
said Mohammed al-Sharq, a member of the small Palestinian community 
in Aden who, like many here, said he believed ``outside forces'' were 
responsible for the attack on the Cole. Esam al Najjar, a Palestinian-Yemeni 
working for a cement company, said such attacks can never be condoned, 
``but you must put yourself in the place of the people who carried 
it out. You have to try to understand that for some people, this is 
the only way left to respond.'' Yemen was one of the countries where 
members of the Palestine Liberation Organization settled after being 
forced from Lebanon. The Palestinian community has dwindled from several 
thousand in the 1980s to 200-300 today in Aden, a desert city known 
for its infestation of crows _ a bad omen to Arabs _ and blocky, Soviet-era 
architecture. President Clinton dispatched investigators from the 
FBI, U.S. State Department and Pentagon to Yemen, and ordered a heightened 
state of alert for all U.S. military installations around the world. 
More than 100 FBI evidence and explosives experts were expected to 
arrive over the weekend. The Cole investigation was taking place under 
tight security in this city of 800,000 squeezed between the sea and 
a range of jagged hills. Yemeni soldiers were posted outside the hotel 
where most U.S. investigators and their Marine guards were staying. 
Inside, the Marines carried automatic rifles and closely monitored 
anyone coming in. The ship, a white cloth billowing over the gaping 
hole ripped into the hull by the blast, sat isolated in an inner area 
of the harbor. Yemeni speedboats patrolled the area bounded by the 
coast and a peninsula. Pentagon spokesman Kenneth Bacon said Friday 
the ship is stable, some power has been restored and Navy divers found 
the keel in good shape. Other large ships _ container ships and cargo 
vessels _ were moored elsewhere as business went on as usual in much 
of the rest of the large harbor. But the Cole drew attention, with 
dozens of people gathered along a stone seawall on the harbor to gaze 
at the mighty, stricken ship. The Cole is a $1 billion guided missile 
destroyer home-ported at Norfolk, Va. It was heading with a crew of 
about 293 to the gulf to support the U.N. embargo against Iraq. At 
the Ramstein Air Base in western Germany, a flight carrying the bodies 
of five of the dead arrived Friday. Light rain fell as an Air Force 
honor guard silently transferred the caskets draped in U.S. flags 
from an Air Force jet into separate hearses. Flags at the base in 
western Germany flew at half staff, and sailors in dress blues stood 
on the tarmac during the ceremony. Lt. Cmdr. Daren Pelkie, at the 
Bahrain base of the U.S. Navy 5th Fleet, said more than 30 sailors 
had been flown to Germany for medical attention. Others were taken 
to the east African country of Djibouti. There have been no claims 
of responsibility for the blast that have gained widespread credibility. 
One U.S. official said this reflected a trend among militant groups 
not to claim responsibility for attacks in order to elude intelligence 
gathering. However, Omar Bakri Mohammed, a leader of Al-Muhajiroun, 
a London-based Arab militant group, said Friday he had received an 
international call claiming responsibility for the attack on the American 
ship. It was in the name of ``Muhammad's Army,'' an extremist group 
previously known to be active only in Chechnya and Dagestan. Bakri, 
who is known to have ties to terror suspect Osama bin Laden, said 
he was skeptical of the claim but some of his skepticism waned after 
Friday's bombing at the British Embassy because the group promised 
more attacks in its call Thursday. It warned that ``strikes will continue 
until the Muslim land and Palestine are liberated,'' he said. Meanwhile, 
a close associate of bin Laden urged Muslims worldwide to attack U.S. 
and Israeli targets to avenge the deaths of Palestinians killed in 
bloody and protracted clashes with Israel. Ayman el Zawahri, who was 
found guilty in absentia of the 1981 assassination of Egyptian President 
Anwar Sadat, faxed his call for ``jihad,'' or holy war, to the Islamabad 
bureau of the Abu Dhabi channel of the United Arab Emirates Television, 
bureau chief Jamal Ismael said. The U.S. official, who spoke on condition 
of anonymity, said the call was similar to others that have been made 
recently and would be evaluated. Islamic extremists have been active 
in Yemen. However, Yemen's Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Iryani said 
in March that bin Laden, at one time had ``colleagues'' in Yemen but 
now ``has no place in Yemen, no military camps.'' The United States 
accuses bin Laden of organizing a network with followers across the 
Mideast, including Yemen, and says he masterminded the 1998 bombings 
of U.S. embassies in Africa that killed 224 people.