Until now, voters have been able to consider Al Gore and George W. 
Bush in relative peace and quiet. No more. Middle East conflict and 
the attack on a U.S. warship, combined with some economic nervousness 
at home, are introducing unpredictable elements into the campaign 
and perhaps forcing people to look at Democrat Gore and Republican 
Bush in new ways, late in the game. Whether the new elements will 
be consequential is beyond the understanding of both campaigns. At 
this point, they are bewildered over how the violence and disquiet 
might play in the Nov. 7 election _ as alert as campaigns always are 
for a so-called October surprise. On one hand, Democrats consider 
Gore's years of experience as vice president a strength for him when 
matters overseas take a dangerous turn _ a point Republican strategists 
and supporters do not dispute. ``I can see how that might make people 
look at the candidates differently, like, 'Can they lead us at a time 
like this?''' Mike Scanlon, a Bush supporter and General Motors project 
manager, said while awaiting the Republican nominee's speech at a 
Pontiac, Mich., truck assembly plant. Said Democrat Dennis Dochterman 
at a Gore event in Cedar Rapids, Iowa: ``When there's uncertainty, 
people are less inclined to take a chance.'' On the other hand, it 
is a Clinton administration-mediated peace process that is falling 
apart between Israelis and Palestinians, and an economy that Gore 
has been running on that is causing some worries, with inflation up 
and the stock market swooning before rebounding Friday. Gore strategists 
prefer smooth economic trends, public satisfaction with the nation's 
overall direction, and no rude shocks _ however unrelated to the campaign 
_ in newspaper headlines. On Friday, a day after suspected terrorists 
blew a hole in the destroyer USS Cole in the port of Aden, Yemen, 
leaving 17 U.S. sailors dead, neither candidate was jousting outwardly 
for advantage. The White House was playing it somewhat carefully, 
too, even while offering a platform for Gore to show his experience. 
President Clinton's spokesman, Jake Siewert, welcomed Gore back as 
the candidate interrupted campaigning for a second day to join Clinton 
in meetings. But the White House did not exactly place him at the 
center of its crisis management. ``I think it was his decision to 
come back here,'' Siewert said. ``But the president ... always has 
appreciated his work on the Mideast peace process.'' While saying 
he'd let ``the experts'' decide whether the crisis helps Gore, spokesman 
Chris Lehane took the occasion to trumpet the candidate's strengths. 
``The bottom line is that he is involved because he has a wealth of 
experience on these issues,'' Lehane said while flying to Washington. 
``He is a valuable part of the foreign policy team at the White House.'' 
Given that Gore and Bush have not voiced major differences on Middle 
East policy, Andy Kohut of the Pew Research Center questioned whether 
the violence there will mean much in the election. Gore may have rushed 
back to Washington, ``but it's not as if he is being summoned home 
to find a way for peace, or to find a way to wage war,'' Kohut said, 
predicting little fallout from developments short of a significant 
threat to U.S. national security. Much the same sentiment was voiced 
in Cedar Rapids by Gore supporter Chuck Silliman. ``I think this administration 
can bring some stability to things if anybody can,'' he said. ``But 
I'm also impressed with what Bush had to say about politics stopping 
at the water's edge.'' Kohut noted, however, that each day devoted 
to problems abroad is one less day for Gore to pitch his prescription 
drug plan, challenge Bush on taxes or otherwise tangle with the Republican 
on domestic issues where polls suggest he has an edge. About three 
weeks are left for that, absent persistent distraction, after the 
candidates lie low for a few days to prepare for their final debate. 
``What it might do is take attention away from the domestic issues 
and that, I think, would be bad news for Gore because he has more 
to gain from a focus on health care, Social Security, even taxes, 
than Bush does,'' Kohut said. But presidential historian Henry Graff 
of Columbia University said: ``If we get into a critical situation, 
we're going to look for tried hands rather than new hands.'' As for 
October surprises, Republicans feared that President Carter would 
pull one off in 1980 by winning the release of American hostages in 
Iran in time to take credit from voters and turn a looming defeat 
into victory. He didn't.