The United States received a general warning of a possible attack 
on a U.S. warship last month, senior defense officials said here Friday, 
but the warning lacked detail and did not specify the country in which 
to expect the attack. ``It was a question of how directly you could 
tie it to a certain place,'' one of the officials said. Since the 
warning, reported by an intelligence source in the Arab world, was 
not specific enough, ``it got put on the shelf.'' Nor was it clear 
that the warning could have stopped what officials described Friday 
as a sophisticated suicide bombing. While the Cole's crew had extensive 
training in repelling an overt attack by a small boat and even had 
extra sailors on watch on Thursday, the attack was so meticulously 
disguised and carried out that the officials said there was little 
the crew could have done to stop it. But as new details emerged on 
the attack Friday, the developing U.S. investigation focused on the 
Yemeni contractor hired to refuel American warships at the port in 
Aden, and on an unsubstantiated claim of responsibility by an Islamic 
organization, officials here said. As the first teams of criminal 
investigators and experts arrived in Yemen, the officials said the 
contractor, whom they declined to identify, was the immediate focus 
because the harbor boat that exploded beside the Cole on Thursday, 
killing 17 sailors, had been taking part in routine refueling operations 
at the port. It was not clear what, if any, security procedures were 
in place to screen the contractor, and officials attributed responsibility 
variously to military commanders in the region, the Pentagon's logistics 
agency and the American Embassy in Sana, the Yemeni capital. Officials 
declined to discuss the matter, saying it was being investigated. 
A group called the Islamic Army of Aden claimed responsibility for 
the bombing, and officials said that while they had not yet confirmed 
the authenticity of the claim, they took it seriously. The group has 
been linked to terrorist attacks including the bombing of a hotel 
in Aden and the kidnapping of tourists, the officials said. A senior 
defense official said the claim was ``sort of elliptical,'' but another 
official who attended a classified briefing on Capitol Hill on Thursday 
night, said it appeared credible. ``It passes the straight-face test,'' 
the official said. ``This wasn't just a guy with a Web site.'' The 
Pentagon spokesman, Kenneth H. Bacon, said Friday that officials had 
ordered a review of security procedures for refueling stops like the 
Cole's. In addition to the installation in Aden, U.S. ships also regularly 
stop at a port outside Djibouti, officials said. ``Every tragedy like 
this provokes a period of reflection, and there will certainly be 
review and reflection after this one,'' Bacon said. Agents from the 
FBI began arriving in Yemen on Friday, the first of them from the 
bureau's office in Cairo, and more were expected to pour in over the 
weekend. Officials said forensic examination of the damage, which 
will identify the type of explosives used, had already begun. Other 
agents were concentrating on who might have had access to the harbor 
boat, as well as on information about the Cole's brief stop in Aden. 
Adm. Vern Clark, the chief of naval operations, said the Yemeni government 
had been notified of the visit 10 to 12 days ahead of time. A defense 
official said that by Wednesday, a day before the Cole arrived, it 
would have been widely expected in the port. ``If you want fresh fruit 
or vegetables you have to tell people when to be on the pier,'' the 
official, who is involved in security operations overseas, said. ``If 
you want fuel, you have to tell people to be there at the facility.'' 
Navy weapons experts, along with divers examining the Cole's ravaged 
port side, determined that the explosion had torn into the ship with 
significant, apparently concentrated, force, underscoring the sophistication 
of the attack. After an underwater inspection of the hull, officials 
said the damage had been more extensive than first reported. A defense 
official said the hole measured nearly 40 feet by 40 feet, much of 
it beneath the surface. One explosives expert said the blast had probably 
been caused by several hundred pounds of high explosives, which detonated 
against or within a few feet of the Cole. Christopher Ronay, a former 
FBI explosives expert, said it was unlikely that the bomb makers had 
used the homemade chemistry of ammonium nitrate and fuel oil employed 
at the World Trade Center in New York in 1993 or at the Federal Building 
in Oklahoma City in 1995. That is because the dry chemicals used in 
such explosives absorb water _ a factor that might preclude their 
use around water. He said the bomb's composition was more likely to 
have been several hundred pounds of high explosives like PETN or TNT, 
or a combination of such compounds, which have been found in terrorist 
bombs exploded in the Middle East dating back to the attacks on the 
U.S. Embassy and a military barracks in Beirut, Lebanon, in the early 
1980s. Still, the officials said they had not ruled out any one of 
several other known terrorist groups, including followers of Osama 
bin Laden, the Saudi exile whom U.S. officials blamed for the bombings 
of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in August 1998.