The U.S. Navy announced Friday night that 7 sailors were killed in 
the blast on the destroyer here on Thursday after divers spent the 
day searching the harbor bed for missing crew members and clues to 
the explosion's cause. Ten sailors were still missing, presumed dead, 
and 38 were wounded. The death toll on the Cole, a Navy destroyer 
outfitted with guided missiles and sophisticated electronic equipment, 
would make it the worst attack on the U.S. military since the bombing 
of an Air Force barracks in Saudi Arabia in 1996 that killed 19 personnel. 
Diving operations were suspended for the night, more than 32 hours 
after the blast, which blew a 40-by-40-foot hole in the Cole's port 
side, slightly larger than first reported. Witnesses said the vessel 
was attacked by two men in a small harbor boat that exploded as it 
drew alongside the U.S. vessel during the start of a refueling stop 
at this port on the southern tip of the Arabian peninsula. While U.S. 
energies in Aden focused on the recovery effort, a worldwide hunt 
began in earnest Friday to track down the group responsible for what 
had every appearance as a terrorist attack, though U.S. officials 
stopped short of publicly using the word terrorism. There were reports 
of two Islamic groups claiming responsibility, but these could not 
be verified, and U.S. officials said their investigation had produced 
no firm leads so far. Two senior defense officials said the United 
States had received a unspecific warning of a possible attack on a 
U.S. warship last month, but it lacked detail and did not mention 
a specific country where the attack was expected. ``It was a question 
of how directly you could tie it to a certain place,'' one said. Since 
the warning, reported by an intelligence source in the Arab world, 
was not specific enough, ``it got put on the shelf.' It was not clear 
that the warning could have stopped what some officials described 
Friday as a sophisticated suicide bombing. While the Cole's crew had 
extensive training in repelling an overt attack by a small boat and 
even had extra sailors on watch on Thursday, the blast had been so 
meticulously disguised and carried out that the officials said there 
was little the crew could have done to stop it. While immediate suspicion 
fell on Islamic radical groups that have used Yemen as a base for 
terrorist attacks in the past, but there was no concrete evidence 
to support this. During the day, there were reports that two Islamic 
groups claimed to have attacked the Cole, but it was not immediately 
clear whether these were propaganda stunts by groups seeking publicity 
from deeds done by others. In London, where he lives in self-exile, 
a Syrian-born Islamic radical, Sheikh Omar Bakri, was reported as 
saying that he had received a phone call from a group calling itself 
Mohammed's Army, which said it had attacked the Cole and the British 
Embassy in Sana, the Yemeni capital, 190 miles north of Aden. The 
group said it intended to take hostages and continue bombing all American 
and British embassies, according to news reports Later in the day 
a previously unknown organization said in Beirut that it had carried 
out the attack. Terrorism experts mulled various theories Friday, 
among them the possibility that the ship was attacked in retaliation 
for events in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, where two weeks of 
confrontations between Israelis and Palestinians have produced a wave 
of anger across the Arab world directed at Israel, and to some extent 
for the United States, which is widely seen by Arabs as backing Israeli 
policies. Experts also weighed other possibilities, including a group 
sympathetic to Iraq and eager to strike against the Cole, which has 
been scheduled to join a U.S. flotilla enforcing trade sanctions on 
Iraq since its invasion of Kuwait in 1990. Western terrorism specialists 
also said it was possible that the attack had nothing to do with the 
recent hostilities in the Middle East because it appeared to be a 
well-planned assault that would have required a substantial amount 
of time to plan, more than the two weeks since fighting broke out 
in region. It was also not clear, these experts said, that any Islamic 
group in Yemen could have had sufficient notice of the arrival of 
the Cole, whose refueling stop here, the 13th made by a U.S. navy 
ship in the past two years, was not announced in advance. During the 
day, fears of a wider terror campaign were stirred when an explosive 
device believed to have been a bomb was thrown over the wall at the 
British embassy in Sana. The device, which exploded shortly after 
dawn atop a diesel generator in the embassy courtyard, damaged the 
building, but there were no casualties. U.S. efforts in Aden on Friday 
concentrated on the search for the missing and on efforts at what 
a Navy spokesman described as ``stabilizing'' the crippled destroyer 
where it lay listing at its mooring point in a broad channel that 
leads into the inner harbor from the Gulf of Aden. Reporters were 
kept far away from the vessel, and even prevented by U.S. and Yemeni 
officials from photographing it and the huge hole on the vessel's 
port side was _ visible until daybreak on Friday _ was covered by 
what appeared to be large white tarpaulins. But a Navy spokesman, 
Lt. Terrence Dudley, who flew in with scores of other Navy personnel 
from the U.S. Navy's 5th Fleet's headquarters in the Persian Gulf 
state of Bahrain, said the recovery effort had succeeded to the point 
where there was no danger of the Cole going to the bottom of Aden's 
deep-water harbor. ``The ship is not in any danger of sinking'', he 
said, adding that Navy officials had been ``evacuating water'' from 
the engine-room and other compartments at the water line that he said 
had been ``extensively damaged'' by the blast. Fleet commanders overseeing 
the operation had decided for now not to attempt to move the Cole 
from its mooring point about a mile off the crowded harbor front. 
Through binoculars, the ship appeared to be listing gently on its 
port side, and was busy throughout the day with teams of Navy men 
who gathered aboard a smaller vessel with a flat platform that was 
moored just beside the gaping hole in its side. The platform appeared 
to be being used for efforts to probe inside the damaged compartments, 
and possibly for divers being lowered on to the seabed. Apart from 
the dead and wounded, who accounted for nearly a sixth of the 293-strong 
crew, the rest of the ship's complement remained aboard, many of them 
forced by blast damage below deck to bed for the night in sleeping 
bags under awnings stretched over the open decks. But details revealed 
during the day by Navy officials suggested that the attackers may 
have come perilously close to sinking the vessel, or at least of so 
severely damaging it that the death toll could have been far higher. 
Dudley told reporters the destroyer had sustained ``a lot of internal 
damage,'' with extensive flooding of many of the lower compartments, 
as well as the engine room, and that the flooding was complicating 
efforts to search for any signs of the missing men aboard the ship 
and to look for clues as to the identity of the attackers and the 
type of explosives used. He said the tentative plan was to pump out 
the water from the damaged compartments, make some temporary repairs 
in Aden and then tow it back to the United States for permanent repairs. 
He turned away questions about the identity of the attackers, saying 
it was an issue for the team of about 100 specialists from the FBI, 
the CIA and the Navy who began arriving here from Washington, Europe 
and the Persian Gulf late Thursday. An edge of impatience crept into 
Navy officers' remarks when they were asked about the assertions on 
Thursday by Yemen's president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, that the Cole explosion 
appeared to have been an accident that began with a blast aboard the 
U.S. ship, not a terrorist act. It remained unclear, however, whether 
Yemeni investigators, who appeared to be playing no direct part in 
the activities around the Cole on Friday, would have any enthusiasm 
for investigating any terrorist aspects of the affair in the light 
of Saleh's continued insistence that the explosion was an accident. 
When the Yemeni assertions were put to Dudley, the Navy spokesman, 
who like other Navymen appeared for duty here Friday in a light-brown 
desert-style camouflage uniform, he replied with apparent acerbity: 
``We do know that a small boat approached our vessel, that there was 
a large explosion that was external to our vessel, and that it left 
our ship with fairly extensive damage of a kind that clearly was inflicted 
from outside. The evidence we have seen clearly shows that the explosion 
occurred outside our vessel.'' Dudley, offering a more detailed account 
of the attack than the sketchy version relayed through the Pentagon 
on Thursday, said that the Cole entered the Aden harbor and began 
to tie up to a mooring point near the fuel depot at 8.45 a.m. local 
time, 1.45 a.m. Thursday EDT. About 45 minutes later, at 9.30 a.m. 
when the Cole was circled by several smaller boats, some of which 
were involved in the mooring and re-fueling operations and others 
dedicated to clearing garbage and other refuse from the Cole, another 
small boat approached the Cole from across the harbor, he said, and 
this was immediately followed by the blast. The small boat in question 
appeared to be the motorized rubber dinghy described on Thursday by 
witnesses, including several Aden citizens, who described the two 
men aboard it as standing erect at the moment of the blast, as if 
in some kind of salutation. Yemeni officials said Friday that as far 
as they knew the recovery operations around the Cole so far produced 
no remains identifiable as those of the men on the dinghy.