Yemeni patrol boats cruised near the USS Cole early Saturday, keeping 
a buffer zone around the stricken ship as U.S. investigators stepped 
up efforts to determine whether terrorism was behind an explosion 
that killed 17 of its sailors. Lt. Terrence Dudley, a U.S. Navy spokesman 
in Aden, said 40 FBI agents and Department of Defense specialists 
from Washington's Foreign Emergency Support Team were due in Aden 
Saturday, joining a few experts already in place. Their mission was 
to ``advise, assist and assess'' a probe that began almost immediately 
after the explosion Thursday, Dudley said. So far, investigators have 
worked to secure what U.S. officials increasingly believe is a terrorist 
crime scene. Divers were examining the hull. More than 100 FBI evidence 
and explosives experts, including those in the group arriving Saturday, 
were expected in Aden by the end of the weekend. U.S. officials believe 
suicide bombers blew up a small boat next to the 8,600-ton destroyer, 
ripping a 40-by-40-feet hole at the water line. If terrorism is proven, 
it would be the deadliest such attack on the U.S. military since the 
bombing of an Air Force barracks in Saudi Arabia in 1996 that killed 
19. Western diplomats in Yemen said the explosion seemed to be the 
work of a well-organized group with good connections in the port of 
Aden. The Navy said the ship would be repaired and stay in service. 
In all, 39 Cole sailors were flown for treatment and evaluation at 
the U.S. military's Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany. 
Some were taken to Germany after first stopping at a French military 
hospital in the east African nation of Djibouti. The Navy had earlier 
said 33 sailors were wounded. Dudley added Saturday that six sailors 
required treatment for post-traumatic stress. About 20 injured crew 
members now in Germany were scheduled to return to the Cole's home 
port of Norfolk, Va. within this weekend, said Cmdr. Beci Brenton 
in Norfolk. The bodies of five of those killed aboard the Cole were 
also flown to Germany Friday, and then on to the United States on 
Saturday, a military spokesman said. They were headed for the Air 
Force Base in Dover, Del. The Navy released the names of the 17 dead 
on Friday. All but one were from the enlisted ranks and two were women 
_ the first female sailors killed in hostile action aboard a U.S. 
combat ship. The Cole explosion came as anti-Western sentiment ran 
high in the Arab world, with protesters condemning the United States 
_ particularly during demonstrations against Israel's use of force 
in two weeks of deadly clashes in Jerusalem and the Palestinian territories. 
More than 200 miles from Aden in the capital, San`a, an explosion 
on Friday rocked the British Embassy. Windows shattered but nobody 
was hurt. Britain's foreign secretary said a bomb may have been flung 
into embassy grounds. Authorities were investigating. The Cole investigation 
was taking place under tight security in this city of 800,000 squeezed 
between the sea and a range of jagged hills. Yemeni soldiers were 
posted outside the hotel where most U.S. investigators and their Marine 
guards were staying. Inside, the Marines carried automatic rifles 
and closely monitored anyone coming in. The ship, a white cloth billowing 
over the gaping hole ripped into the hull by the blast, sat isolated 
in an inner area of the harbor on a hot, sunny Saturday morning. The 
survivors remained on board. Two other Navy ships _ the frigate USS 
Hawes and the destroyer USS Donald Cook _ were sent to help the Cole 
and its crew. ``Obviously, the crew left on the USS Cole is tired 
and distraught,'' Defense Department spokesman Kenneth Bacon told 
reporters in Washington Friday. ``And so the crews of the new ships 
can help do some of the work that's required to keep the ship afloat 
and to deal with the damage to the hull.'' Bacon said the Cole was 
stable, some power has been restored and Navy divers found the keel 
in good shape. The Cole is a $1 billion guided missile destroyer. 
It was heading with a crew of about 293 to the Gulf to support the 
U.N. embargo against Iraq. There have been no claims of responsibility 
for the blast that have gained widespread credibility. One U.S. official 
said this reflected a trend among militant groups not to claim responsibility 
for attacks in order to elude intelligence gathering. However, Omar 
Bakri Mohammed, a leader of Al-Muhajiroun, a London-based Arab militant 
group, said Friday he had received an international call claiming 
responsibility for the attack on the American ship. It was in the 
name of ``Muhammad's Army,'' an extremist group previously known to 
be active only in the Chechnya and Dagestan, in Russia. Bakri, who 
is known to have ties to terror suspect Osama bin Laden, said he was 
skeptical of the claim but some of his skepticism waned after Friday's 
bombing at the British Embassy because the group promised more attacks 
in its call Thursday. Meanwhile, a close associate of bin Laden urged 
Muslims worldwide to attack U.S. and Israeli targets to avenge the 
deaths of Palestinians killed in bloody and protracted clashes with 
Israel. Ayman el Zawahri, who was found guilty in absentia of the 
1981 assassination of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, faxed his call 
for ``jihad,'' or holy war, to the Islamabad bureau of the Abu Dhabi 
channel of the United Arab Emirates Television, bureau chief Jamal 
Ismael said. Islamic extremists have been active in Yemen. However, 
Yemen's Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Iryani said in March that bin 
Laden, at one time had ``colleagues'' in Yemen but now ``has no place 
in Yemen, no military camps.'' The United States accuses bin Laden 
of organizing a network with followers across the Mideast, including 
Yemen, and says he masterminded the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies 
in Africa that killed 224 people.