President Clinton, encouraged by the breakthrough in efforts to bring 
Palestinians and Israelis together for peace talks, was awaiting word 
from Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak on convening a summit, a top 
White House aide said Saturday. Clinton, who planned a political trip 
to Denver and Seattle, has been working for the last eight days to 
end the crisis in the Middle East and find those responsible for the 
apparent terrorist attack Thursday on a U.S. warship in Yemen that 
killed 17 American sailors. He canceled a political trip to Missouri 
and Arkansas on Friday and stayed at the White House to conduct telephone 
diplomacy with Mideast leaders. Aides said Clinton could travel to 
the region as early as Monday for a proposed summit intended to end 
the violence and get peace negotiations back on track. ``The summit 
has been proposed by Mubarak. We're awaiting word from President Mubarak 
as to whether he feels the conditions are in place to convene a summit,'' 
the administration official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. 
Mubarak said he would host talks in the resort town of Sharm el-Sheikh 
``as long as it serves the Palestinian interest,'' the Middle East 
News Agency reported. Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, who had been 
refusing to take part until Israel vowed to stop firing at Palestinian 
demonstrators at flashpoints in the West Bank and Gaza, agreed early 
Saturday to attend. U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan was in touch 
with Clinton and Secretary of State Madeline Albright during the night 
and said the peace talks could be convened Sunday or Monday without 
preconditions. ``We are encouraged by what Kofi Annan has said,'' 
the White House aide said. The president worked late Friday night 
to break the Mideast stalemate, but took a break shortly after 9 p.m. 
EDT to call those gathered in Little Rock, Ark., for a Democratic 
fund-raiser. He told them he remained hopeful for a breakthrough. 
On Friday, the president spoke by telephone three times to Saudi Arabia's 
Crown Prince Abdullah. He also called U.N. Secretary-General Kofi 
Annan, King Mohammed VI of Morocco, British Prime Minister Tony Blair 
and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. Clinton also talked to Yemeni 
President Ali Abdullah Saleh about Thursday's explosion that tore 
a hole in the side of the USS Cole. Additionally, he spoke with Adm. 
Vernon Clark, the chief of naval operations; Adm. Robert Natter, commander 
in chief of the US Atlantic Fleet; Vice Adm. Charles Moore, commander 
of the 5th Fleet; and Cmdr. Kirk Lippold, commanding officer of the 
Cole. Vice President Al Gore, meanwhile, interrupted his presidential 
campaign to attend a two-hour National Security Council meeting where 
Clinton was briefed on the volatile situation in the Middle East and 
the attack on the U.S. Navy destroyer. Attorney General Janet Reno 
and FBI Director Louis Freeh were also at the meeting. ``Even if the 
violence stops it will be very difficult to move on to the negotiating 
table immediately,'' White House press secretary Jake Siewert said. 
``Some sort of cooling-off period needs to occur before they can sit 
down and work through their differences.''