Thirty-nine sailors wounded in the attack on a U.S. Navy ship in Yemen 
arrived Saturday in Germany for treatment at a military hospital, 
a midway station on their journey home. Hours later, another plane 
left Germany for the United States carrying the bodies of five sailors 
killed in the bombing. The caskets were headed for the Dover Air Force 
Base in Dover, Del. Services were planned for later in the day at 
Dover and at the Norfolk Naval Base in Virginia, home port of the 
stricken USS Cole. Of the first planeload of 28 sailors who arrived 
in Germany before dawn, seven were too badly wounded to walk and were 
carried from the plane on stretchers at Rhein-Main Air Base outside 
Frankfurt. Many of the 21 walking wounded were still wearing shorts 
and T-shirts, and wrapped themselves in blankets against the chilly 
fog as they descended from the plane that had carried them on a 15-hour 
trip from Aden, Yemen. Some had bandages around their heads; two had 
eye bandages and four or five with bandaged limbs hopped on one foot 
without the aid of crutches. They appeared stunned and exhausted as 
they filed past a small group of reporters on to a waiting bus. The 
seven stretchers were loaded gingerly on to a bus for the 1 1/2 hour 
drive to the U.S. military's Landstuhl Regional Medical Center. ``These 
guys were just exhausted,'' said Capt. Karin Petersen, one of five 
flight nurses from the 86th Medical Air Evacuation Wing based at Ramstein 
who, along with a surgeon and other medical personnel, accompanied 
the wounded. ``They just wanted us to take them home.'' A second group 
of 11 more seriously wounded sailors arrived later Saturday on a flight 
to Ramstein and were being brought to Landstuhl. That group had departed 
from the east African nation of Djibouti, their first point of evacuation 
after the attack. Military doctors at Landstuhl said the injuries 
among the first group appeared minor. Most had cuts and bruises, some 
had broken bones and a few had eye injuries, said deputy director 
Col. James Rundell. One sailor had a ruptured eardrum and another 
a dislocated shoulder, he said. Some were expected to need counseling 
to deal with the mental trauma of the attack, Rundell said. ``At this 
point, it's hard to tell the difference between being dazed and being 
tired,'' he told a news conference at Landstuhl, speaking of the first 
group who arrived. ``Our focus today is to get the patients in the 
hospital stabilized and their treatment begun.'' Landstuhl director 
Col. Elder Granger paid tribute to the 25 men and three women. ``My 
condolences go out to the families of these great Americans, America's 
sons and daughters, who are serving their country in the name of democracy 
and defense,'' Granger said. ``The most important thing is that we 
want to make sure they are safe.'' The C9 medical transport originally 
was headed for Ramstein Air Base, less than two miles from the Landstuhl 
military hospital, but had to divert to Rhein-Main because of fog. 
Before the weather changed, the bodies of five sailors killed in the 
attack on the Cole arrived Friday evening at Ramstein on their way 
back to the United States. Light rain fell as an Air Force honor guard 
silently transferred the caskets draped in U.S. flags from an Air 
Force jet into separate hearses. Sailors from the Sigonella air base 
in Sicily stood at attention on the tarmac alongside airmen in dress 
blues during the ceremony. Flags flew at half staff at the base in 
western Germany. As the caskets were driven away to the nearby Landstuhl, 
the clouds receded and the setting sun cast a red and yellow reflection 
across the wet tarmac. The United States says 17 sailors died and 
33 were injured in the explosion on the USS Cole while it was refueling 
in the Yemeni port of Aden. Seven bodies have so far been recovered. 
The blast tore a hole 40 feet high and 40 feet wide at the ship's 
waterline. U.S. officials say suicide bombers blew up a small boat 
next to the destroyer.