President Clinton, encouraged by the breakthrough in efforts to bring 
Palestinians and Israelis together for peace talks, was awaiting word 
from Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak on convening a summit, White 
House officials said Saturday. ``It's obviously very promising and 
the president will be in touch with leaders in the region today as 
we travel to the West Coast,'' White House Press Secretary Jake Siewert 
told reporters. ``What we are going to do is reach out to President 
Mubarak who ... has been working to arrange the summit.'' Clinton, 
who planned a political trip to Denver and Seattle, has been working 
for the last eight days to end the crisis in the Middle East and find 
those responsible for the apparent terrorist attack Thursday on a 
U.S. warship in Yemen that killed 17 American sailors. He canceled 
a political trip to Missouri and Arkansas on Friday and stayed at 
the White House to conduct telephone diplomacy with Mideast leaders. 
Aides said Clinton could travel to the region as early as Monday for 
a proposed summit intended to end the violence and get peace negotiations 
back on track. ``The summit has been proposed by Mubarak. We're awaiting 
word from President Mubarak as to whether he feels the conditions 
are in place to convene a summit,'' an administration aide said, speaking 
on the condition of anonymity. Mubarak said he would host talks in 
the resort town of Sharm el-Sheikh ``as long as it serves the Palestinian 
interest,'' the Middle East News Agency reported. Palestinian leader 
Yasser Arafat, who had been refusing to take part until Israel vowed 
to stop firing at Palestinian demonstrators at flashpoints in the 
West Bank and Gaza, agreed early Saturday to attend. U.N. Secretary-General 
Kofi Annan was in touch with Clinton and Secretary of State Madeline 
Albright during the night and said the peace talks could be convened 
Sunday or Monday without preconditions. ``We are encouraged by what 
Kofi Annan has said,'' the White House aide said. The president worked 
late Friday night to break the Mideast stalemate, but took a break 
shortly after 9 p.m. EDT to call those gathered in Little Rock, Ark., 
for a Democratic fund-raiser. He told them he remained hopeful for 
a breakthrough. Eds: Following 2 grafs embargoed for 10:06 a.m. EDT 
use ``Ending the violence and getting people of the Middle East back 
to dialogue will be hard after what has happened,'' Clinton said Saturday 
in his weekly radio address. ``But no matter how difficult that task 
may be, no matter how terrible the images of this week's violence, 
the effort must continue with America's strong support.'' On the explosion 
that ripped a gash in the USS Cole, he said: ``We will do whatever 
it takes, for as long as it takes, to find those who killed our sailors 
and hold them accountable. ... For only by defending our people, our 
interests and our values will we redeem the lives of our sailors and 
ruin the schemes of their killers.'' End embargoed material On Friday, 
the president spoke by telephone three times to Saudi Arabia's Crown 
Prince Abdullah. He also called U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, 
King Mohammed VI of Morocco, British Prime Minister Tony Blair and 
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. Clinton also talked to Yemeni President 
Ali Abdullah Saleh about Thursday's explosion that tore a hole in 
the side of the USS Cole. Additionally, he spoke with Adm. Vernon 
Clark, the chief of naval operations; Adm. Robert Natter, commander 
in chief of the US Atlantic Fleet; Vice Adm. Charles Moore, commander 
of the 5th Fleet; and Cmdr. Kirk Lippold, commanding officer of the 
Cole. Vice President Al Gore, meanwhile, interrupted his presidential 
campaign to attend a two-hour National Security Council meeting where 
Clinton was briefed on the volatile situation in the Middle East and 
the attack on the U.S. Navy destroyer. Attorney General Janet Reno 
and FBI Director Louis Freeh were also at the meeting. ``Even if the 
violence stops it will be very difficult to move on to the negotiating 
table immediately,'' Siewert said. ``Some sort of cooling-off period 
needs to occur before they can sit down and work through their differences.''