As the American military figures out how to repair the bomb-damaged 
warship USS Cole, it also will ponder whether security policies need 
to be fixed as well. The Navy was concentrating mainly on restoring 
power and communications aboard the guided missile destroyer, recovering 
the bodies of missing sailors in the flooded ship and helping the 
crew's relatives back home. At the explosion site in Yemen, repair 
crews surveyed damage caused by the apparent terrorist bombing that 
took 17 lives and investigators worked to determine those responsible 
for the attack. The White House said President Clinton plans to attend 
memorial services on Wednesday in Norfolk, Va., the ship's home port. 
``He will pay tribute to the sailors who lost their lives serving 
their country,'' White House Press Secretary Jake Siewert said Saturday. 
At the Pentagon, officials said the explosion is certain to lead to 
a review of whether ships in foreign ports should tighten security 
procedures and whether Yemen's main port, Aden, should still be used 
as a ship refueling stop. ``Every tragedy like this provokes a period 
of reflection,'' Defense Department spokesman Kenneth Bacon told reporters 
Friday. ``And there will certainly be review and reflection after 
this one, and we will look at our security procedures.'' The Navy 
also will rethink the way in which it contracts with local harbor 
authorities for the kind of help it required in Aden, Bacon said. 
Harbor boats were assisting the Cole attach mooring lines at a fuel 
facility in the middle of the harbor Thursday when one of the boats 
pulled alongside the warship and apparently detonated a bomb. Bacon 
said the Navy already began its investigation of the incident. ``I'm 
sure there will be other reviews in the coming days, and I think we'll 
be able to announce something soon,'' he said. Following initial damage 
assessments, the rest of a team of several dozen divers, engineers 
and other experts was to arrive at Aden in the next few days to determine 
exactly what is wrong with the Cole _ its hull, main structures, drive 
shafts and so on, said Navy spokesman Cmdr. Greg Smith. The team will 
recommend to the Pentagon ways the ship might be repaired enough to 
move, and where it might be moved to, Smith said. ``I would expect 
in the next week or so they will be able to ... know what they have 
to do to fix it, and perhaps even have completed the repairs enough 
to move it to a more substantial facility,'' said Bacon. Officials 
did not estimate how long it might take to return the 4-year-old, 
$1 billion Cole to the fleet and how much it might cost. Its main 
damage is a 40-by-40-foot hole at its waterline and the destruction 
and flooding of one of its two engine rooms. Two other Navy ships 
_ the frigate USS Hawes and the destroyer USS Donald Cook _ were sent 
to help the Cole and its crew. ``Obviously, the crew left on the USS 
Cole is tired and distraught,'' Bacon said. ``And so the crews of 
the new ships can help do some of the work that's required to keep 
the ship afloat and to deal with the damage to the hull. So it's important 
that they have reinforcements there.'' In other developments Friday: 
_ Officials began bringing the casualties home, flying some to Germany 
for flights on to the United States. _ A memorial service was planned 
for Wednesday in the Cole's home port of Norfolk, Va. _ The Navy released 
the names of the dead and missing. All but one were from the enlisted 
ranks. Two were women, the first time a female sailor has been killed 
in hostile action aboard a U.S. combat ship. _ The State Department 
announced it was closing many of its embassies and consulates for 
the weekend as a security precaution. That included all posts in the 
Middle East, the Persian Gulf region and North Africa as well as some 
posts in other parts of Africa.