A team of FBI agents, U.S. Navy investigators and other anti-terrorist 
experts arrived in this port city on the southern tip of the Arabian 
peninsula on Saturday to reinforce the probe into the explosion aboard 
the destroyer Cole that killed 17 U.S. sailors and wounded more than 
30 others, at least five of them critically, aboard one of the Navy's 
most sophisticated warships. The investigation into what Washington 
has tentatively described as a terrorist act was bolstered with the 
arrival of a 40-member squad from the federal emergency support team, 
a Washington-based unit that draws experts from different government 
agencies. They joined a score of other experts who flew in earlier 
from bases in Europe and elsewhere in the Middle East, including the 
headquarters of the Navy's Fifth Fleet in Bahrain in the Persian Gulf. 
Over the weekend, the U.S. investigation team is expected to grow 
to more than 100, including personnel from the CIA and defense intelligence 
agencies. The investigation is focusing on the theory that a team 
of suicide bombers, possibly belonging to an Islamic terrorist group, 
attacked the Navy destroyer in a well-planned operation that used 
the cover of a mooring operation in Aden harbor to dash in among a 
flotilla of support vessels. Witnesses have described two men in a 
motorized rubber dinghy racing to the port side of the Navy ship and 
standing erect at the moment the blast occurred. If confirmed as the 
work of terrorists, the attack would be one of the bloodiest single 
incidents in years, and the worst against Americans in the Middle 
East since a truck-bombing of a military barracks in Saudi Arabia 
that killed 19 U.S. servicemen in June 1996. Federal investigators 
said Saturday that an analysis had indicated that the attackers used 
at least 440 pounds of high explosives, about a fifth of a ton. They 
said the hole caused by the blast at the Cole's waterline was about 
80 feet wide and almost as deep, far larger than initial reports suggested. 
As the destroyer sat listing in Aden's inner harbor on Saturday, in 
blazing 100-degree heat, the Pentagon announced new measures suggesting 
that it remained deeply concerned about conditions aboard the ship, 
and possibly about further terrorist attacks. The announcement said 
the Fifth Fleet had ordered two other Navy ships, the frigate Hawes 
and the destroyer Donald Cook, to join the Cole in Aden as soon as 
possible ``so the crews of the new ships can help do some of the work 
that's required to keep the ship afloat and to deal with the damage 
to the hull,'' according to Kenneth Bacon, a Pentagon spokesman. The 
reinforcements were approaching Aden at midafternoon, close enough 
for helicopters to begin shuttling Navy officials to the incoming 
ships, and they were expected to be in the port by nightfall to bolster 
the support and protection that were already in place around the Cole. 
Throughout the night and into the day, Yemeni patrol boats could be 
seen in the harbor, and a British frigate, the Marlborough, remained 
moored alongside the Cole in what British and U.S. officials said 
was a move by Britain's Royal Navy to assist the U.S. destroyer and 
the surviving members of its 293-strong crew. Reporters' requests 
to visit the Cole continued to be deferred. The Navy said it wanted 
no distractions from the probe, which included diving operations below 
the Cole's waterline and down to the harbor floor, to determine the 
extent of the damage to the ship, and to search for the remains, if 
any, of the 10 sailors of the 17 killed who were still listed as missing. 
The bodies of five of the seven crew members who were found after 
the blast were scheduled to arrive aboard a military transport plane 
in Dover, Del., on Saturday, after being flown from Aden to Ramstein 
Air Base in Germany. For the crew still aboard the Cole, conditions 
appeared to be highly uncomfortable. Many were sleeping under awnings 
stretched across the upper decks after the blast filled many of the 
vessel's compartments and its engine room with water, rendering the 
ship's engines unusable and stripping the vessel of air conditioning. 
Large shipments of bottled water flown from Bahrain, as well as emergency 
food supplies, were being shuttled to the ship by tenders. During 
the day, the Navy announced that in addition to the 33 crew members 
originally listed as wounded, another six were evacuated on Friday 
to a U.S. military hospital at Landstuhl, Germany, suffering from 
what Lt. Terrence Dudley, a Navy spokesman, described as ``post-traumatic 
stress.'' All of the wounded were out of the Aden hospital that gave 
them initial treatment by Friday, airlifted directly to Germany or 
to a French military hospital in neighboring Djibouti. By Friday night, 
the casualties in Djibouti had also been flown to Germany. Although 
Navy spokesmen have said that there is no danger of the Cole sinking, 
there seemed little doubt that the billion-dollar warship, one of 
the United States' newest and most sophisticated warships, was severely 
damaged. Dudley said that much of the recovery crew's effort had gone 
into pumping water out of the flooded compartments, and to investigating 
ways of patching the hole caused by the blast, part of which was below 
the waterline. This would enable sailors to get the ship to dockside, 
in Aden or elsewhere, where more elaborate repairs could be made that 
would allow the Cole to be towed back to its home port of Norfolk, 
Va. With officials in Washington having said on Friday that they had 
no firm leads on which group carried out the attack, U.S. officials 
in Aden stressed the thoroughness of the investigation. The team that 
arrived overnight from Washington will remain in Aden ``as long as 
it takes,'' Dudley said, adding, ``Nothing will be left untouched.'' 
Apart from the difficult conditions in the port, where the Cole is 
moored about three-quarters of a mile from the harborside, requiring 
all equipment and supplies to be ferried out by tenders, the investigators 
are working in a highly charged political atmosphere. Yemen's president, 
Ali Abdullah Saleh, a former army general who runs this nation of 
almost 18 million people largely as a personal fiefdom, has continued 
to imply that the U.S. version of the explosion is wrong, and that 
it resulted from an accident aboard the Cole, not a terrorist attack. 
Yemen's official SABA news agency, reporting Saturday on a telephone 
conversation on Friday night between Saleh and President Clinton, 
quoted Saleh as telling the U.S. leader that both countries must avoid 
``a wrong analysis'' of the cause of the blast. Although SABA did 
not say what Saleh meant, the Yemeni leader has maintained since the 
explosion that it was ``not a deliberate act,'' and that reports reaching 
him from his own security agencies have indicated that the blast occurred 
inside the Cole. Navy spokesmen here have refuted this version, saying 
that all their evidence shows that the blast, which they say occurred 
at 9:30 a.m. local time on Thursday (2:30 a.m. EDT), happened when 
the unidentified rubber boat maneuvered between other support vessels 
assisting the Cole with mooring, refueling and garbage-removal operations, 
and raced to the Cole's port side. ``It was an unfortunate circumstance 
that was not foreseen,'' Dudley said on Friday, after outlining the 
``high alert'' precautions _ including posting crewmen to watch for 
unidentified craft _ that he said were routine during navy refueling 
stops here. He added: ``We do know that there was a large explosion 
that was external to our vessel, and that it left our ship with fairly 
extensive damage.'' Saleh, the Yemeni leader, has remained at his 
presidential mansion in the lee of Cape Aden, a 2,000-foot volcanic 
mountain that overlooks the harbor, since visiting injured U.S. crewmen 
in an Aden hospital on Thursday. Despite his suggestion that the blast 
was an accident, he has been at pains to promise that Yemen will cooperate 
with the U.S. investigation and ``hunt down'' the perpetrators if 
terrorist involvement is proved. U.S. officials here say the Yemeni 
leader has abided by this undertaking, offering all the help requested, 
and waiving Yemeni laws and regulations to allow large numbers of 
U.S. military and intelligence officials to operate with few restrictions. 
This cooperation has extended to allowing a 40-man Marine anti-terrorist 
squad deployed from Bahrain to patrol inside a government-owned harborside 
hotel where most of the U.S. team members are staying, wearing desert-style 
camouflage uniforms and carrying automatic rifles. The Marines also 
act as bodyguards for investigators shuttling to the harborside. In 
a country that bans foreigners from using satellite telephones, the 
Americans have set up sophisticated communications transmitters on 
the hotel roof, and posted Marines to protect them.