With the wounded safe and the bodies of the 17 dead sailors headed 
home for burial, attention turned in full force Saturday to determining 
whether it was terrorists who attacked the USS Cole as it sat in a 
Yemeni harbor. Lt. Terrence Dudley, a U.S. Navy spokesman in Aden, 
said 40 FBI agents and Department of Defense specialists from Washington's 
Foreign Emergency Support Team arrived in the city Saturday, joining 
a few experts already in place. Their mission: ``advise, assist and 
assess'' a probe that began almost immediately after the explosion 
Thursday, Dudley said. So far, investigators have worked to secure 
what U.S. officials increasingly believe is a terrorist crime scene. 
Divers were examining the hull. More than 100 FBI evidence and explosives 
experts, including those in the group that arrived Saturday, were 
expected in Aden by the end of the weekend. Yemen almost immediately 
rejected U.S. claims that terrorism was behind Thursday's explosion, 
and the Foreign Ministry repeated Saturday that it ``does not accept 
the presence of terrorists on its territories.'' Nonetheless, U.S. 
officials believe it was suicide bombers who blew up a small boat 
next to the 8,600-ton destroyer, ripping a 40-by-40-foot hole at the 
water line. Western diplomats in Yemen said the explosion seemed to 
be the work of a well-organized group with good connections in the 
port of Aden. If terrorism is proven, it would be the deadliest such 
attack on the U.S. military since the bombing of an Air Force barracks 
in Saudi Arabia in 1996 that killed 19. Thirty-nine 39 Cole sailors 
were flown for treatment and evaluation to the U.S. military's Landstuhl 
Regional Medical Center in Germany. Some were taken to Germany after 
first stopping at a French military hospital in the east African nation 
of Djibouti. The Navy had earlier said 33 sailors were wounded. Dudley 
said Saturday that six additional sailors required treatment for post-traumatic 
stress. About 20 injured crew members now in Germany were scheduled 
to return to the Cole's home port of Norfolk, Va., this weekend, said 
Cmdr. Beci Brenton in Norfolk. The bodies of those killed aboard the 
Cole were also flown first to Germany. A plane carrying the bodies 
of the first five to be recovered left Germany for the United States 
on Saturday, a military spokesman said. Services were planned later 
in the day at Dover air base in Delaware and at the Norfolk Naval 
Base in Virginia. The Navy released the names of the 17 dead on Friday. 
All but one were from the enlisted ranks and two were women _ the 
first female sailors killed in hostile action aboard a U.S. combat 
ship. The Cole explosion came as anti-Western sentiment ran high in 
Yemen and elsewhere in the Arab world, with protesters condemning 
the United States, particularly during demonstrations against Israel's 
use of force in two weeks of deadly clashes in Jerusalem and the Palestinian 
territories. More than 200 miles from Aden in the capital, San`a, 
an explosion on Friday rocked the British Embassy. Windows shattered 
but nobody was hurt. Britain's foreign secretary said a bomb may have 
been flung into embassy grounds. Authorities were investigating. Saturday's 
statement from the Yemeni Foreign Ministry defended the country's 
record of combatting terrorism. The strongly worded statement also 
defended Yemenis and government officials who have protested the treatment 
of Palestinians in Israel, the West Bank and Gaza. The protests have 
``nothing to do with American-Yemeni relations'' and express not only 
Yemeni sentiment but that of ``the world's conscience,'' the ministry 
said. There have been no credible claims of responsibility for the 
blast. One U.S. official said that reflects a trend among militant 
groups. To elude intelligence-gathering, many have not been claiming 
responsibility for their attacks. Among the names mentioned in the 
wake of the bombing has been Osama bin Laden: The United States accuses 
bin Laden of organizing a network with followers across the Mideast, 
including Yemen, and says he masterminded the 1998 bombings of U.S. 
embassies in Africa that killed 224 people. Islamic extremists have 
been active in Yemen. However, Yemeni Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Iryani 
said in March that bin Laden, who at one time had ``colleagues'' in 
Yemen, now ``has no place in Yemen, no military camps.'' The Cole 
had been heading with a crew of about 293 to the Gulf to support the 
U.N. embargo against Iraq when it was bombed. The Cole survivors remained 
aboard, and the Navy said the $1 billion guided missile destroyer 
would be repaired and stay in service. Two other Navy ships _ the 
frigate USS Hawes and the destroyer USS Donald Cook _ were sent to 
help the Cole and its crew. ``Obviously, the crew left on the USS 
Cole is tired and distraught,'' Defense Department spokesman Kenneth 
Bacon told reporters in Washington on Friday. ``And so the crews of 
the new ships can help do some of the work that's required to keep 
the ship afloat and to deal with the damage to the hull.'' Bacon said 
the Cole was stable, some power had been restored and Navy divers 
found the keel in good shape. Saturday was the 33rd anniversary of 
independence from Britain for what was once South Yemen, now part 
of United Yemen. The anniversary is usually festive, particularly 
in Aden, once the South Yemeni capital. But marches and gatherings 
were banned Saturday in a city under tight security. The ban on celebrations 
added to the frustrations of Aden fishermen, some of whom have been 
unable to take their boats out because of the security around the 
Cole.