in the waters off the coast of yemen, two urgent missions tonight 
collecting evidence from the suicide bombing and retrieving bodies 
still buried in debris. 316 were aboard the "uss cole" when the terrorists 
struck. dozens were injured. 17 were killed. our coverage begins with 
nbc's joe johns. a plane carrying the bodies of five dead american 
sailors from the "uss cole" arrived today at dover air force base, 
as the first wave of forensics experts and investigators from the 
department of defense and the fbi arrived in yemen. their mission 
-- to continue the search for evidence and suspects in the explosion. 
also on the way, equipment to lift the "cole" out of the water and 
specialists to help retrieve the bodies of those trapped and presumed 
dead. we know there are spaces that are inaccessible. we know there 
are some remains in those spaces. we need to get in those and locate 
the remains that we anticipate finding there. though the work was 
only beginning, a top justice department official in washington predicted 
the outcome of the investigation. i'm confident that we will be able 
to determine who was behind the bombing and that those people, those 
organizations, will be held accountable, they will be punished. this 
critical phase of the investigation must be conducted both above and 
beneath the water on a tight time line. they'll want to get in there 
quickly because one of the problems when you're dealing with seawater 
is that it will have an adverse effect on your evidence. to further 
speed up the process, the fbi has now activated the strategic information 
and operation center in washington. conceived after the bombings of 
the u.s. embassies in kenya and tanzania, ensuring the fastest possible 
exchange of information between investigators and the decision makers. 
on the diplomatic front, the u.s. said the government of yemen is 
cooperating with the investigation, though that country's president 
disputes charges that his nation is a haven for terrorists. the justice 
department says no group or individual has been ruled out as a suspect, 
though many expect that whoever gets the blame will eventually be 
tied to the terrorist osama bin laden and the grieving continued today 
at the naval academy's football game against notre dame. a moment 
of silence to remember the victims of this terrorist act. joe johns, 
nbc news,.