while there may be some home for secretary albright's meeting with 
the palestinians and israelis in paris, the united states has zero 
influence with slobodan milosevic. and as jam maceda reports tonight, 
milosevic is going hard at his opposition. day two of a nationwide 
general strike. those opposed to yugoslav president slobodan milosevic 
call this a "peaceful revolution." dozens of factories, including 
a major oil refinery shut down parts of belgrade, choked off today 
for several hours by roadblocks. it's finished. we are winning. it's 
definitely a victory. that's the hope of vojislav kostunica -- the 
man the opposition says soundly beat milosevic in last week's presidential 
vote. visiting serbia's largest coal mine, he told thousands of striking 
miners that milosevic stole the election, and that no power could 
stop them from taking it back. but hundreds of police already surround 
the mine, the heart of serbia's economy. and in the clearest indication 
yet that the wave of civil disobedience is actually threatening the 
government, a warning read on state tv tonight to crackdown on protesters 
trying to paralyse the country. so far, the protests have been largely 
peaceful, but tension is growing between protesters and police. over 
a dozen arrests and several injuries reported. part of the coordinated 
effort to keep up the pressure -- spontaneous street demonstrations. 
this protest has brought out thousands of serbs, calling for the end 
of the milosevic regime. opposition leaders are confident milosevic's 
days in power are numbered. zoran djindjic, opposition leader: i think 
it can last days, or months, but it is over. milosevic hasn't gotten 
that message. he's getting ready for a runoff election this weekend, 
even though the opposition says it's already won. and protesters are 
planning to show their might thursday with hundreds of thousands converging 
on belgrade for what they hope will be the knockout punch. jim maceda, 
nbc news, belgrade.