The architect of the plan to send U.S. Navy ships into the port of 
Aden as part of the larger goal of improving relations with Yemen 
defended his decision Saturday, saying he was trying to prevent Yemen 
from becoming a ``rats' nest'' of terrorist groups. ``It's important 
to not have in the gulf region places like Afghanistan that become 
rats' nests of terrorists and extremists,'' said Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, 
the plan's creator and recently retired Pentagon regional commander 
for the Middle East. ``We were helping Yemen help itself, and everyone 
in the region was interested in having us help them change.'' In a 
reversal of the common view of American diplomats that the U.S. military 
is too cautious overseas, Zinni said several planned ship visits had 
been vetoed by the American ambassador to Yemen, Barbara K. Bodine, 
who worried about the threat of terrorists. The decision to refuel 
Navy ships in Aden harbor has been questioned by some counterterrorism 
experts since the explosion on Thursday that killed 17 sailors on 
the destroyer Cole. The refueling stops, done in the port's waters 
and not at the docks, were meant to help revive the economic fortunes 
of the once-bustling port and give the government the imprimatur of 
respectability that comes with regular American visits, the general 
said. The constant presence of several terrorist groups associated 
with the Israel-Palestinian conflict and others active against Egypt 
and Israel prompted the Pentagon to approve Yemen's request to help 
create its own coast guard to control traffic on the Red Sea and the 
Arabian Sea. Zinni said he had also sent American special forces to 
Yemen to train the local military in counterterrorism tactics and 
the use of weapons. And senior officers and noncommissioned officers 
from Yemen are studying at military colleges in the United States. 
``Our big concern was terrorists' ability to move in and out of Yemen,'' 
he said. ``We wanted to make sure the Yemen military knew what they 
were doing and knew to contact us if they had a situation.'' Now the 
Pentagon is reviewing security in Yemen to determine whether it should 
continue those refueling visits and who was responsible for the breach 
of security that led to the attack. The State Department has rejected 
suggestions by some Pentagon officials since the explosion that the 
American Embassy in Yemen was responsible for the ship's security 
in port. ``The responsibility for operational decisions, such as refueling 
and security, for all U.S. ships in this region rests with the commander 
in chief of Central Command,'' Richard Boucher, the State Department 
spokesman, said on Friday. Zinni agreed, and said that the Navy had 
conducted the negotiations with the port authority at Aden for the 
refueling services and that he was responsible for the initial assessment 
that it was safe to return to Yemen after that country had suffered 
more than a decade of civil war and strife. Yemen's strategic position 
on the tip of the oil-rich Arabian peninsula was the prime motivation 
for the general's recommendation, despite Yemen's refusal to join 
the allies in the Persian Gulf war against Iraq in 1991 and the constant 
presence of terrorist groups in its hinterlands. But the general said 
he believed that Yemen was making progress at controlling those groups 
and would eventually evict them, and he wants the United States to 
continue developing its relations with Yemen. ``We've had bombings 
in Italy, Greece, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, the Philippines, and I didn't 
hear anyone say it was because we were engaged in those countries,'' 
he said. ``What I hope is we stay in Yemen.''