sailors injured in the bombing of the "uss cole" are on their way 
back to the united states for rest and medical treatment. as they 
recover, they are giving horrific accounts of the attack. chris burns 
reports. bandaged and sometimes limping, most managed to walk to the 
plane. some signaled they were in good spirits, as they boarded the 
c-141 for the final trip home. the injuries were more apparent on 
others. some were far too injured to walk at all. the c-141 lifted 
off, leaving behind six other sailors of the "uss cole," four men 
and two women at nearby landstuhl u.s. medical center. they were the 
worst hurt, some recovering from surgery a day earlier. all were out 
of intensive care, and one was taken off a ventilator. the other person 
who is still on the ventilator, and who is seriously injured, has 
multiple fractures of both lower legs, ankle, a foot, both wrists, 
and has also had some abdominal injuries. meanwhile, four of the sailors' 
families quietly arrived at landstuhl in the morning. the other two 
were expected on monday. officials here said the injured sailors still 
declined to be interviewed. a navy source said they were not pressured 
to remain silent, despite reported concerns that sailors' accounts 
could compromise the blast investigation. but chaplains who spoke 
with the sailors heard some dramatic stories, including one from a 
man who struggled to keep from drowning. the water started rise ing, 
and he started thinking about his wife, who is pregnant with a child, 
a daughter. and he just thought about how he wanted to see them again. 
chaplains also say they heard little anger or bitterness from the 
sailors about the blast, and no debate over whether the "uss cole" 
should have been off adden in the first place. but the chaplains acknowledge 
that could change, as the sailors begin to regain their strength. 
chris burns, cnn, at ramstein air base, germany. president clinton's 
national security adviser is defending the use of the yemeni port 
of aden for refueling u.s. ships. samuel berger says there are few 
places in the persian gulf where ships can refuel and calls the whole 
region "a high threat area." he says so far, investigators have not 
identified specific suspects in the attack. well, there's an inquiry 
that the defense department has undertaken to look at what happened 
in this circumstance, whether any further measures were required. 
i assume we will look at the larger question of whether we should 
continue to refuel there. but, you know, we've refueled there 25 times 
in the last 18 months. this is a high risk, high threat area, the 
middle east. and we do have to have refueling in ports. and in all 
of these countries, there is a degree of risk. we just have to make 
sure that we've taken every measure possible to diminish that risk. 
that blast went off as two men in a small boat pulled up alongside 
the 505 foot destroyer. the pentagon says preliminary evidence indicates 
the attackers used 400 to 500 pounds of explosives to blow a foot 
hole in the hull.