President Clinton's national security adviser on Sunday defended the 
Navy's decision to dock ships in Yemen, where a suspected terrorist 
blast killed 17 sailors aboard the USS Cole. Sandy Berger said limited 
fueling options in the Persian Gulf require such stops despite the 
high risk of terrorism. ``This entire area is a high threat area. 
The military has taken substantial steps in this area,'' he said on 
NBC's ``Meet the Press.'' He said 25 ships have refueled in the Arabian 
Peninsula port of Aden in the past 18 months ``without incident.'' 
``Obviously we have to find out what if anything happened in this 
particular case,'' Berger said. U.S. officials believe the ship was 
the target of a suicide attack from a small vessel packed with powerful 
explosives. If terrorism is proved, it would be the deadliest such 
attack on the U.S. military since the bombing of an Air Force barracks 
in Saudi Arabia in 1996 that killed 19. ``I think it's quite clear 
that it was a terrorist act but we at this point have no clues as 
to who's responsible,'' Berger said. Secretary of State Madeleine 
Albright said on ABC's ``This Week'' that she thinks the inquiry is 
``moving'' and the United States is ``getting a lot of people in there.'' 
Among the names mentioned in the wake of the bombing has been Osama 
bin Laden. The United States accuses bin Laden of organizing a network 
with followers across the Mideast, including Yemen, and says he masterminded 
the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in east Africa that killed 224 
people. President Clinton, in a letter Saturday to Republican congressional 
leaders, said more than 100 military personnel, plus two Navy warships, 
were sent to Yemen to help with security, communications and medical 
needs. Berger said the Defense Department is investigating whether 
future ships will continue to refuel in the area. ``We need to wait 
for a very thorough review and determine if anything more could have 
been done and should have been done,'' he said. Aden's convenient 
deep-water port had been used as a refueling point for U.S. warships 
for about two years. Discussions also had been started on a possible 
permanent U.S. facility around Aden _ near the southwestern tip of 
the Arabian Peninsula and near the important straits at the southern 
end of the Red Sea.