today, u.s. secretary of defense william cohen promised to catch and 
punish those responsible for the bombing of the "cole" and defended 
the navy's decision to refuel ships in yemen as investigators continued 
their day at work. morton dean reports it's a difficult day for the 
sailors remaining on board. the stressful, monumental task for the 
crew on the u.s. carrier suffered a setback. the ship began to take 
on water and lost electrical power again. a difficult time became 
even more difficult. it led to the cancellation of a memorial service 
planned for the 17 sailors who lost their lives. details ares are 
becoming known about the damage, most obvious, the huge hole. but 
also the deck is buckled. evenhe superstructure is damaged. hatches 
twisted out of shape and bulkheads destroyed. rear admiral mark fitzgerald, 
who visited the cole, was stunned by the damage. i won't tell you 
whether the ship is going to sink or not sink, but there was considerable 
damage to the ship. according to u.s. officials here tonight, the 
most important questions about the atck remain unanswered. any details 
or speculation on who specifically, we don't know that at this point. 
with well over 100 u.s. investigators now in yemen, the search for 
evidence is now fully under way. it's been officially designated "operation 
determined response," and that suggests several things that the u.s., 
of course, is determined to discover who carried out the bombing and 
that any group who helped plan the attack faces a response from the 
u.s. military. the u.s. believes there are anti-american terror groups 
based in yemen. half the population lives in settlements with 500 
people or less, and senior u.s. officials here say the government, 
although friendly to the united states, does not have full control 
over the entire country. yemen's president has repeatedly said an 
internal explosion rocked the "uss cole," but tomorrow u.s. officials 
expect him to announce that he has changed his mind. and tomorrow, 
the search for bodies will resume. ten u.s. sailors are still mi missing. 
morton dean, yemen. to learn more about yemen, to our website at abcnews.com.