The Pentagon on Sunday suspended all naval refueling operations in 
Yemen until officials determine whether lax security in the port at 
Aden left the U.S. destroyer Cole vulnerable to a presumed bombing 
attack that killed 17 sailors and wounded more than three dozen others. 
The security at the port _ and with the private contractor that oversaw 
the refueling _ has become a focus of the widening investigation into 
what officials have called a suicide attack. Since the attack is believed 
to have involved a harbor boat helping the Cole moor at a refueling 
site in Aden's port, officials say they believe that those involved 
skillfully infiltrated the port's operations or the contractor itself. 
In addition to a criminal inquiry led by the FBI, the Navy and the 
Department of Defense have begun separate investigations into how 
a small harbor boat packed with explosives could have managed to blow 
a gaping hole in one of the Navy's most sophisticated warships, senior 
officials said Sunday. ``We will find out through this inquiry as 
to whether there was any laxity, any failure to measure up to the 
very highest standards that we insist upon for force protection,'' 
Secretary of Defense William Cohen said in an interview on the CBS-News 
program ``Face the Nation.'' The Pentagon on Sunday identified the 
company hired to provide fuel to visiting U.S. warships as Arab Investment 
Manufacturing and Trading Co. Ltd., which is based in Aden. The company's 
role, along with that of Aden's government-run port agency, is one 
subject of the FBI's investigation, officials said. A Pentagon spokesman, 
Lt. Col. Paul S. Phillips, said the contract for refueling _ negotiated 
between the company and a division of the Defense Logistics Agency 
_ did not specify the company's responsibilities for security of operations 
at the port. It did, however, detail responsibilities for the company's 
own facilities, like requiring a fence around its pipelines to the 
harbor, Phillips said. Pentagon officials also revised some of the 
details about the refueling visits. On Sunday they said two dozen 
U.S. warships had stopped to refuel in Aden since the Navy began using 
the facilities there in early 1999 _ double the 12 visits that officials 
had originally cited. The extent to which the company had been vetted 
was not clear. And U.S. officials in Washington and in Yemen continued 
to provide conflicting accounts of which U.S. agency, if any, oversaw 
the company's security, as well as that of the port itself. ``We'll 
have to see whether or not anything more could have been done _ should 
have been done _ to prevent this,'' President Clinton's national security 
adviser, Sandy Berger, said on the NBC-News program ``Meet the Press.'' 
In Aden, U.S. investigators and forensic experts scoured the Cole 
for evidence that could be used to find those involved in an attack. 
Officials said investigators had found small fiberglass fragments 
on the Cole believed to be from the harbor boat that is thought to 
have exploded as it sidled up to the destroyer's port side. The officials 
said they now believed that the boat was 21 to 26 feet long and packed 
with several hundred pounds of high explosives. Investigators also 
found fragments of what seemed to be human flesh on the Cole's deck, 
perhaps the remains of two men who were seen standing on the boat 
in the moments before it apparently exploded. Berger, Cohen and Secretary 
of State Madeleine Albright defended the decision to use Aden as a 
refueling point despite concerns about security in a country that 
the State Department itself called ``a safe haven for terrorists'' 
earlier this year. ``For well over a decade, we've had a strong military 
presence in this region,'' Berger said. ``Now, if you're going to 
have a strong military presence, that means you're going to have to 
be dealing with some countries with whom we don't agree in all respects.'' 
For U.S. warships passing through the Suez Canal and the Red Sea on 
their way to operations in the Persian Gulf, the port in Aden is strategically 
situated, Berger and other officials said. They also said there were 
few alternatives. The architect of the plan to use the port, Gen. 
Anthony C. Zinni, who recently retired as the commander of U.S. forces 
in the region, said in an interview Sunday that Aden actually provided 
greater security than the alternatives. The reason, he said, was that 
Aden's port has a new refueling site in the middle of the harbor, 
which means that ships do not have to dock at a pier, where security 
is even harder to police. ``This was one of the best ports in the 
region security-wise,'' Zinni said. But others raised questions about 
the wisdom of using Aden, a dilapidated, bustling port with only a 
limited sense of law and order. ``Well, I think we should look at 
that very carefully,'' Sen. Trent Lott, the Republican majority leader, 
said on ``Meet the Press.'' ``I've been asking some questions about 
that,'' Lott said. ``Obviously it's a dangerous area. We should have 
reason to suspect that terrorism exists there and could affect our 
ships, but you know, I don't want to second-guess it at this point.''