I'm Ray Kugell. This is VOA News now at one thirty six Universal time 
broadcasting from Washington. International reaction continues to 
be positive towards the democratic revolution in Yugoslavia led by 
Vojislav Kostunica while the democratic opposition of Serbia his 18 
party coalition price to consolidate its power. The Serbian people 
toppled Slobodan Milosevic's government ten days ago when they took 
to the streets to protest an attempt to nullify the results of the 
September 24th presidential election. In Kosovo, the majority Albanian 
population who seek independence from Serbia refuse to participate 
in the election and they have voiced mixed reactions to the events 
of the past three weeks. Today's Dateline examines the subject of 
Kosovo in Yugoslavia's new government. Here is Judith Latham. Balkan 
analysts say the question of the future relationship between Kosovo 
and the new government in Belgrade is exceedingly complex. Although 
Kosovo's Serbs participated in the Yugoslav presidential elections, 
the majority Albanian population of Kosovo boycotted them and there 
are even reports that many Kosovo-Albanians secretly hoped Mr. Milosevic 
would win. Because, so long as an indited war criminal was President 
of Yugoslavia, they thought the international community might be more 
favorably disposed to an independent Kosovo some day. Despite Mr. 
Kostunica's reputation as a strong Serb nationalist, he is generally 
regarded as a democrat and is far more reasonable than his predecessor. 
Greg Sholty is Senior Director for Southeast European affairs at the 
National Security Council in Washington. He says Mr. Kostunica's public 
statements thus far have been encouraging. With respect to Kosovo, 
he made a statement where he recognized the commitments that Yugoslavia 
has taken with respect to Kosovo and . I think our conclusion is that 
in the long run having democratic reform in Belgrade is to the benefit 
of the people of Kosovo. And we're going to work with the people of 
Kosovo to build up democracy there to help them recover from the terrible 
campaign of ethnic cleansing that took place there and to help them 
build up institutions for a democratic self government. Greg Sholty, 
staff member of the National Security Council. Jim Hooper is Director 
of the Washington office of the International Crises Group, which 
is headquartered in Brussels. I talked with Mr. Hooper about the new 
Yugoslav President's views on Kosovo. On October the 9th Mr. Kostunica 
spoke with two reporters from The Washington Post and he expressed 
a fatalistic view about the future status of Kosovo and said, "We 
can imagine even Kosovo not being part of Serbia and we can imagine 
Kosovo being part of Serbia although not right now because of NATO's 
occupation." And what kind of accommodation might be possible? He 
is very eager, for example, for Serbs to be able to go back to Kosovo 
and live there in safety. Well, I think it's a legitimate concern 
to be worried about Kosovo Serbs and in The Washington Post interview, 
I believe Mr. Kostunica referred to his thinking about releasing some 
of the Kosovo-Albanians, there are almost a thousand of them held 
in Serbian jails, who were taken there at the end of the NATO bombing 
to get them out of Kosovo and that they have been political prisoners 
since then. I think this would be a very welcome gesture by the Kosovo-Albanians, 
if he did that. What he is asking, however, is that the authorities 
in Kosovo do provide information on missing Serbs. The reality of 
course is that the Kosovo-Albanians cannot imagine Kosovo being anyway 
a part of Serbia or a part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. 
You know, there were a number of reports that quite a few Kosovo-Albanians 
were not entirely thrilled with the defeat of Mr. Milosevic because 
that seemed in some ways to weaken their case for independence, particularly 
with the international community. How do you see the response of the 
international community and particularly the United States to the 
Kosovor quest for independence given a more democratic government 
in Belgrade? I think the Kosovo Albanians are very concerned about 
the international community response to the unfolding events in Serbia. 
As long as Mr. Milosevic was there, no one in the West would even 
consider it that Kosovo might return to Serbia or the FRY, whether 
it was ruled by Milosevic, would be gone. With the Democrats in power 
their concern is that the support for their independence among the 
West is going to diminish and the international community will begin 
urging that they take a fresh look at the idea of possibly linking 
up to Serbia or the FRY. The departure of Milosevic was good news 
for everyone in the region except the Kosovars, at least that's how 
many Kosovo Albanians feel. Jim Hooper, Director of the Washington 
office of the International Crises Group. Louis Cell, Head of ICG's 
office in Pristina, says it's far better for Kosovo, the Balkans and 
the world as a whole that Slobodan Milosevic is no longer in power 
in Serbian. It's obviously going to be easier over the long run to 
achieve a peaceful and a stable solution in Kosovo and the Balkans 
without Milosevic there. Kostunica, a democratically elected leader 
of Serbia, is quite properly being included in international deliberation. 
The Kosovo Albanians, on the other hand, don't have their own government 
as they are under a UN protectorate, but there is no one with any 
legitimacy now in the eyes of the Kosovo Albanians who can represent 
their interest at least on matters of their future. On Kosovo, Kostunica 
has clearly expressed strong views. He believes that Kosovo, it is 
part of Serbia, that Serbian authority should return and at the most 
the Kosovo can expect for its future is the substantial economy. All 
of those things are utterly anathema and completely unacceptable to 
Kosovo Albanians. Mr. Cell says Mr. Kostunica's victory has forced 
the Kosovo Albanians to come to grips with their own lack of political 
power. That is, none of their leaders neither Ibrahim Rugova, nor 
Hashim Thaci has legitimacy in the eyes of the world. So it is essential 
that the Albanians create interim governmental institutions in Kosovo 
before discussing their future status with Belgrade. He says the Albanian 
community would be well advised to get its act together in terms of 
a leadership council after local elections scheduled for October 28th. 
On the other hand, he says the Serbs of Kosovo have been heartened 
by Mr. Kostunica's victory because they think there is a real chance 
what they regard as international occupation by the United Nations 
will end and Serb forces will then return to Kosovo. Louis Cell spoke 
with us by mobile phone from Pristina, where he has been monitoring 
recent events. Elier Jarcob, President of the National Albanian-American 
Council, says he is concerned that recent developments in Yugoslavia 
will shift international attention and development aid to the new 
government in Belgrade. I think for Albanians in Kosovo, the changes 
in Serbia will make things much more complicated. Eventually there 
will need to be some sort of discussion between Albanians in Kosovo 
and Serbs in Belgrade about a range of issues including the fate of 
political prisoners in Serbia, restitution to Kosovo for crimes committed 
there, what happens with war criminals who are roaming freely in Serbia 
itself, and then ultimately relationship between the two countries. 
I think that in the long term the changes in Serbia are beneficial 
to Albanians in Kosovo and to the Balkans in general. Elier Jarcob, 
President of the National Albanian-American Council, speaking with 
us from his office in Washington. Blair Michella, Editor of Pristina's 
daily newspaper, Zery, says Albanian political leaders in Kosovo have 
an important role to play in shaping any future relationship with 
the new government in Belgrade. The Albanian political leaders must 
support changes in Serbia. They should not fear democratization in 
Serbia, but on the other hand, they must resolutely and unanimously 
declare that self-determination for Kosovo will not be questioned, 
independently of who sits in the Serbian government. The issue of 
self-determination for Kosovo has not been, and cannot be a hostage 
of changes in Serbia. This is a necessary process for the long-term 
stabilization in the Balkans. Blair Michella, Editor of the Albanian 
language daily, Zery, speaking with VOA from Pristina. Kosovo and 
Yugoslavia's new government was the subject of today's Dateline. I'm 
Judith Latham.