A blast more powerful ``than just TNT'' buckled the USS Cole's deck 
and turned the attack boat into ``confetti size'' pieces that rained 
down on the crippled destroyer, officials said Sunday in accounts 
that shed light on the enormous devastation of the bombing. The details, 
provided by senior U.S. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity, 
also raised questions about the level of security in a port selected 
last year as a key refueling point for U.S. warships traveling between 
the Mediterranean and the Persian Gulf. There has been no credible 
claim of responsibility from Thursday's apparent suicide attack, which 
killed 17 sailors, wounded 39 others and punched a 40-by-40-foot chasm 
in the hull. Yemeni security forces have detained more than a dozen 
people for further questioning, but no arrests have been announced. 
It ranks as the deadliest terrorist attack on the U.S. military since 
the bombing of an Air Force barracks in Saudi Arabia in 1996 that 
killed 19. ``Now exactly who was behind it, what their motivation 
was and how they were able to arrange it, that we can't speculate 
on,'' said Barbara Bodine, the U.S. ambassador to Yemen. ``The ship 
has suffered a tremendous blow,'' said Rear Adm. Mark Fitzgerald, 
the military commander of the U.S. task force sent to the ship. On 
the listing deck of the Cole, crew members gathered for religious 
services and offered prayers for their dead shipmates _ some still 
wedged behind contorted metal below. A planned formal memorial was 
delayed because the crew worked through the night to control flooding 
after another bulk head collapsed, officials said. Also Sunday, the 
plane carrying 33 injured crew members landed at the Norfolk Naval 
Station in Norfolk, Va., while the other six injured remained hospitalized 
in Germany. The bodies of five of the sailors killed arrived back 
on United States soil on Saturday. Meanwhile, experts began scouring 
the ravaged ship in search of clues and the bodies of sailors still 
missing. Divers began searching water-filled compartments. Crews with 
powerful metal cutters will try to slice through the wreckage to reach 
bodies: two visible and 10 still missing and perhaps trapped behind 
floors and walls bent wildly by the blast. Terrorism and explosive 
experts combed through scenes described by a U.S. official as ``utter 
devastation.'' On the deck, ``confetti size'' pieces from the wooden 
attack boat were collected, the official said. Among the tasks for 
the investigators: looking for residue that could indicate the type 
of explosives. One of the officials said the power of the blast suggested 
``more than just TNT'' _ which could suggest a well-organized and 
supplied group. The officials said the blast occurred shortly after 
the ship was secured to two buoys to begin refueling in the harbor, 
which was full of pleasure boats, fishing vessels and merchant ships. 
About two to three support vessels were around the Cole, including 
pilot craft and a garbage barge. There was no cry of alarm from the 
Cole's crew. Two people on the attack boat reportedly stood at attention 
briefly before the explosion. The blast at the waterline was close 
to the dining area for senior enlisted officers. Most hands were busy 
finishing the docking. A few minutes later, however, and the mess 
area would have started to fill. Immediately after the explosion, 
the ship began to fill with oily water from the 40-foot deep harbor. 
The ship listed under the weight of the flood. The impact wrenched 
open hatches and buckled parts of the deck on the 4-year-old destroyer, 
whose modern construction may have helped it say afloat. Power was 
lost and generators were used to pump out water and keep the Cole 
afloat. ``Heroic efforts were undertaken by the crew ... they saved 
the ship,'' said Fitzgerald. The U.S. Navy has ``blanket clearance'' 
to dock at Aden, where it keeps its own stockpile of fuel in cooperation 
with a private Yemeni company. Normally, a 48-hour advance notice 
is given of a ship's arrival. The information is passed on to Yemeni 
port authorities and the fuel agent, officials said. U.S. diplomats 
have insisted the Yemeni government is not suspected of any terrorists 
links. But security has been a key issue regarding Aden, the home 
base for an Islamic militant group founded by the brother of terrorist 
mastermind Osama bin Laden _ accused of links to the 1998 bombings 
of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 224 people. The 
United States keeps a small port-based security contingent in Aden, 
but relies mostly on Yemeni authorities. At the same time, Washington 
is eager to strengthen relations with Yemen as another foothold in 
the Arab world. The U.S. ambassador, however, dismissed questions 
that security risks were overshadowed by political objectives when 
U.S. warships began refueling in Aden in June 1999. About 25 Navy 
vessels have used the port. ``We obviously ... determined it was safe 
to come into this port ... if we had specific and credible information 
to the contrary, the ship would not have come in,'' said Bodine. U.S. 
officials have placed a moratorium on naval stops in Aden for the 
moment. A final decision will be made once the $1 billion guided missile 
destroyer is towed away or taken aboard a special carrier vessel. 
The ship could leave Aden as early as this week.