The family of Seaman Recruit Cherone Gunn spent Sunday morning in 
church, grieving the loss of the 22-year-old who was among 17 killed 
in Thursday's attack on the USS Cole. At the same time, 33 of Gunn's 
injured comrades were being flown back to the Cole's home port to 
be reunited with their loved ones. The injuries to the 31 men and 
two women ranged from broken ribs and collapsed lungs to multiple 
fractures and burns, said Lt. Cmdr. Jim Mensching, an emergency medicine 
physician at Portsmouth Naval Hospital. He said all 33 would be hospitalized 
at least overnight. Relatives of the crew had been converging on the 
Norfolk Naval Station, the Atlantic Fleet headquarters, since Thursday 
when an explosion blew a 40-by-40 foot hole in the side of the destroyer 
during a refueling stop in Yemen's port of Aden. They were given regular 
briefings by Navy officials, plus assistance from chaplains and counselors, 
said Cmdr. Denny Moynihan, a Navy spokesman. ``It's an entire Cole 
family,'' Moynihan said. Fellow sailors and officers in dress whites 
lined up along the tarmac along with family members of the injured 
as the transport plane arrived early Sunday evening. Children waved 
small U.S. flags and flowers as the injured sailors began leaving 
the plane. Some of the injured were helped down the ramp to the arms 
of waiting family members. Some walked, others used canes and crutches. 
The most seriously injured were carried off the plane on stretchers. 
Relatives of six remaining injured crew members, still hospitalized 
in Germany, have flown to the U.S. military's Landstuhl Regional Medical 
Center to see them. The most seriously injured, a man in his 20s, 
was suffering from multiple fractures in his legs, ankles, feet and 
wrists, as well as abdominal injuries, doctors said. ``We hope he 
will recover from his wounds, but he has been extremely injured and 
anything can happen with this type of extensive injuries,'' said Thomas 
Burkhard, a senior Navy doctor at Landstuhl. Sunday morning, Gunn 
was remembered during a memorial service at the Basilica of Saint 
Mary of the Immaculate Conception in Norfolk, the same place where 
he was christened 22 years earlier. Gunn's parents, fiancee and three 
brothers were joined by members of the congregation, who provided 
hugs and offers of assistance. ``When you're in pain like that you 
think you need a shot of cognac, but what I really needed was a shot 
of the church,'' said Gunn's father, Louge Gunn. Since Gunn's mother, 
Mona, heard the news of her son's death on Thursday, friends from 
the church, colleagues and relatives had flooded the family's home 
with messages of support. ``There's been a steady flow of people in 
our house from 8 or 9 a.m. until the evening,'' Mona Gunn said. ``I 
went up (to bed) at about 9 p.m. yesterday and there must have been 
30 or 40 people downstairs.'' Louge Gunn, a retired chief with the 
Navy, stressed the pride he felt for his son, who enlisted in the 
Navy in January. ``He was a hero,'' Louge Gunn said. ``He gave his 
life for his country, for something that he loved _ the Navy. He was 
a sailor, a true sailor. His life was fulfilled.'' ___ On the Net: 
Navy: http://www.navy.mil/