Yemen is a failed state on the mend just around the corner from Somalia, 
in a truly wild neighborhood. It has been a haven for international 
terrorists and radical Islamic groups and there is little evidence 
that the government has any control over them. Given these facts, 
some critics are already blaming policy-makers for placing U.S. forces 
in such a dangerous place _ and by extension, in all such places. 
Using a refueling stop to build stronger ties with a volatile and 
struggling Arab nation not only backfired, such critics say, it shouldn't 
have been tried. ``It's not worth the risk,'' said Richard N. Haass, 
director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution who 
served on the National Security Council under President George Bush. 
``Yemen has a bad record, and it's still a place where the government 
is unable or unwilling to take certain steps against certain terrorist 
groups. We must become more selective and more wary of who we do normal 
operations with.'' Others at least as numerous insist that the United 
States must not let terrorists dictate how and where it projects its 
presence on the globe. And to be sure, the United States is staying 
put in the Middle East. ``We have very large interests in the region 
that aren't just important, they are vital,'' said former Rep. Lee 
Hamilton, D-Ind., who headed the House International Relations Committee. 
Hamilton's list of interests is a long one: unfettered access to affordable 
oil; protecting Israel's security; limiting the spread of nuclear, 
chemical and biological weapons and the missiles to launch them; checking 
the influence of Islamic fundamentalists; advancing economic development 
in the region. ``It would be an absolute victory for terrorists, if 
they're behind this attack, if we pulled back and stopped doing our 
job in the Middle East or elsewhere in the world, and we're not going 
to give them that victory,'' said the Pentagon spokesman, Kenneth 
H. Bacon. Indeed, say critics of withdrawal, wouldn't abandoning the 
field in places like Yemen just leave them open to getting worse? 
Everyone points to Somalia as the example to avoid. But it wasn't 
the worst case by any means. Consider, for example, the experts in 
the Reagan administration who put U.S. troops in a barracks at the 
airport in Lebanon in 1983. After the killing of 241 U.S. servicemen 
by a Shiite Muslim driving a suicide truck bomb in October 1983, U.S. 
resolve was badly shaken and there was a furious domestic debate over 
whether the United State should have brought in troops in the first 
place, or whether it should have done so in a different way. The alternative, 
which came to pass when the U.S. troops left, was Syrian control, 
for which everyone in the region is still paying the price. The thing 
that the Saudis, Egyptians and others in the region remember most 
about the marines in Beirut was not their arrival, but their departure. 
In Arab eyes, the marines simply cut and ran from Lebanon when the 
Syrians and their Lebanese allies made the cost of staying too high. 
Both sides of the leave-or-stay debate, however, ignore a simple point: 
that there are common-sense rules of engagement for doing business 
in dodgy places that could reduce the risks of operating in them. 
First of all, the diplomatic and military services should invest heavily 
in intelligence, preferably the kind using real eyes and ears, which 
can infiltrate terrorist groups and snitch. ``We're constantly reading 
the tea leaves very carefully,'' said one four-star officer with experience 
in the Middle East. ``You continually assess the intelligence, bounce 
those observations off others and gauge the host nation's level of 
security cooperation. These things don't stay on a flat line, they 
ebb and flow.'' Second, avoid stationing forces where they can become 
targets of opportunity and resentment. After the 1996 bombing of a 
housing complex in Saudi Arabia, in which 19 airmen were killed, U.S. 
troops in Dhahran were moved out of urban compounds into more defensible 
desert bases. Third, when traveling around the region, go well armed 
and avoid falling into predictable patterns that are vulnerable to 
preplanned attack. Fourth, to the extent possible, limit dependence 
on host-nation support for security, supplies and other services that 
would allow terrorists to carry out an inside job, as the bombing 
of the destroyer Cole seems to have been. Fifth, work closely with 
the host country's intelligence and police forces to limit vulnerabilities. 
These are pretty straightforward operating principles, but they may 
be ignored, either because of overconfidence in U.S. armed might (forgetting 
that the whole point of terrorism is to puncture that very image), 
or because U.S. forces overseas often want to be seen as benevolent 
and helpful. ``It's very, very complicated,'' said Adm. Stanley R. 
Arthur, who commanded allied naval forces in the 1991 Persian gulf 
war. ``The basic nature of Americans is that we're much more comfortable 
reaching out than being in a bunker mentality.'' In Lebanon, the United 
States trusted all factions to accept that it would be an even-handed 
guardian of order. In Yemen, it trusted the port authority not to 
be infiltrated by Islamic kamikazes, a doubtful proposition at best. 
``They executed the plan as it was specified,'' Adm. Vern Clark, the 
chief of naval operations said of the U.S. commanders' security precautions. 
Today, it is clear that the plan was inadequate. What happened in 
Yemen is a reminder that the world abounds in dangerous places, that 
U.S. forces are vulnerable whenever they venture into them and that 
they must take precautions equal to that knowledge.