Escalating the Yugoslav crisis, President Slobodan Milosevic's embattled 
government threatened for the first time Tuesday to arrest leaders 
of the nationwide strikes seeking to drive him from office. But the 
strikes appeared to spread in the second day of the protests aimed 
at forcing Milosevic to accept that he lost the Sept. 24 elections 
to Vojislav Kostunica and step down. Instead, Milosevic has called 
a runoff election for Sunday _ which the opposition has repeatedly 
rejected. Police in the southern town of Vranje dispersed about 2,000 
protesters, and opposition officials said dozens were arrested Tuesday. 
They were promptly sentenced to between 10 and 30 days in jail for 
taking part in the work stoppages and road blocks, the opposition 
coalition reported. Milosevic dispatched the army's chief of staff, 
Gen. Nebojsa Pavkovic, to the Kolubara coal mine south of Belgrade 
to demand that strikers return to work. It marked the first time Milosevic 
has used the military in any role during the current crisis. But the 
miners, who supply coal to a major Yugoslav power plant at Obrenovac, 
told the general they would remain on strike until Milosevic accepts 
that he lost the presidential election. The government immediately 
struck back by introducing four-hour power cuts to opposition-controlled 
cities, blaming the strikers for a shortage of coal. In the apparent 
broadening of strikes, workers at a key copper mine in the southern 
town of Majdanpek walked off the job. They parked dump trucks at the 
mine gates and unloaded dirt and rocks to build barricades, the private 
Beta news agency reported. The government warned in a televised statement 
that it would not tolerate ``violent behavior,'' which disrupts vital 
institutions and threatens lives. ``Special measures will be taken 
against the organizers of these criminal activities,'' the government 
said, clearly threatening opposition leaders with arrest. ``These 
measures also apply to media that are financed from abroad and are 
breeding lies, untruths and inciting bloodshed.'' The opposition has 
called for people to rally in Belgrade on Thursday, in a final push 
to drive Milosevic from power and has repeatedly rejected taking part 
in a run-off Sunday, convinced that the president would cheat again. 
``No one has the right to so bluntly annul the people's will,'' Kostunica 
said. ``If we did that we would betray the will of the voters.'' In 
Belgrade, about 20,000 people chanting ``the police are with us'' 
marched toward Milosevic's residence in the exclusive Dedinje district. 
Hundreds of riot police turned them away without incident, allowing 
the crowd to march down a major highway dividing the capital. Protesters 
lit fires and overturned garbage bins. High school students blocked 
Belgrade downtown squares with garbage containers and tens of thousands 
opposition supporters marched to the government statistics bureau, 
which counted the votes from last month's election. ``Thieves! Thieves!'' 
marchers chanted. Barricades remained up around the central town of 
Cacak where almost all shops remained shut. Merchants displayed signs 
in the windows proclaiming: ``Closed Because of Robbery,'' alluding 
to the contested vote count. Striking railroad workers cut lines from 
Serbia to Yugoslavia's smaller republic, Montenegro. Elsewhere, some 
30,000 people marched through the second-largest city of Novi Sad. 
In Nis, about 400 workers walked out a tobacco factory, carrying a 
huge photograph of Milosevic draped in black cloth as a sign of mourning. 
``All Serbs know by now that Milosevic lost the elections _ except 
the electoral commission,'' Nis Mayor Zoran Zivkovic told 10,000 people 
at a rally. Despite the public outcry, Milosevic remained defiant. 
His spokesman, Nikola Sainovic, accused the opposition of ``brutally 
lying'' in its claims to have won the first-round balloting. ``They 
want chaos in the streets in order to trigger foreign intervention,'' 
Sainovic said.