Yugoslavia's crown prince has launched an ambitious tour of the land 
of his ancestors, returning home now that the communist era is over 
and President Slobodan Milosevic has been ousted. Crown Prince Aleksandar 
Karadjordjevic arrived in Belgrade on Sunday a beaming, optimistic 
royal, shaking hands with well-wishers and politicians. ``I came to 
a new, liberated Serbia,'' said the heir to the defunct throne who 
has lived in exile because his father, King Peter II, the last ruling 
monarch, fled the country in 1941. Serbia is the larger of Yugoslavia's 
two remaining republics and the ancestral land of the Karadjordjevic 
dynasty. Still, the crown prince remained evasive about what role, 
if any, he would like to play in a post-Milosevic Yugoslavia. Asked 
Sunday if he will try to reclaim the throne, Karadjordjevic said only: 
``What I suggest is that we go on with democracy.'' In the past, he 
has said the royal family should return to Yugoslavia without specifying 
if members of the dynasty were planning to reclaim the throne. So 
far, however, he has made no statement as to what role he would like 
to play in the country. On Monday, the prince planned to head into 
central Serbia to tour major cities. This visit was the most extensive 
planned by Karadjordjevic to date. Some 250 people came to the airport 
Sunday to greet him, chanting: ``Long live the King,'' and ``Stay 
with us.'' The prince, who resides in London, warned that Milosevic, 
who now lives under virtual house arrest after recent street riots 
swept him from power, may not be totally defeated. ``Reactionary forces 
are still giving resistance, but not for long,'' Karadjordjevic said. 
Founded originally as a monarchy, Yugoslavia became a communist-run 
federation after World War II. Members of the dynasty were banned 
from returning and their property was confiscated. Karadjordjevic 
was first allowed to return in 1992, but only briefly, and he soon 
began to openly criticize Milosevic for destructive policies. When 
the 18 opposition parties joined forces earlier this year to oust 
Milosevic, Karadjordjevic openly endorsed them and their presidential 
candidate, Vojislav Kostunica. With their win, he again praised them 
for ``leading the country to true democracy.'' Kostunica became president 
Oct. 7, after massive riots against Milosevic who tried to rig results 
of the Sept. 24 elections to stay in power. On Sunday Karadjordjevic 
met with Kostunica and also with the head of Serb Orthodox Church, 
Patriarch Pavle. ``Today, the important thing to do is to bring aid 
to the people and that the EU nations as well as the United States 
keep their word and help,'' he said. There have been no reliable opinion 
polls recently on whether the monarchy should be restored. But polls 
in the mid-1990s showed a solid one-third support for the idea and 
more than two-thirds overall saying they wouldn't object if it would 
bring stability. ``I lived for this day. Thank God that he is here 
again,'' said florist Leposava Mihajlovic, 62, among those who turned 
up to greet the prince. ``There should be a plebiscite so people can 
decide'' on possible restoration, she said. Kostunica has suggested 
the issue could be decided by the people but has placed priority on 
economic recovery after decades of communist rule followed by the 
Milosevic years, which led to widespread poverty. In neighboring Bulgaria 
and Romania, monarchies were also abolished after World War II, but 
have not been restored despite the collapse of communism.