Divers searched water-filled compartments of the USS Cole on Monday 
and crews with powerful metal cutters tried to slice through the wreckage 
to reach more victims as sailors worked to stabilize their crippled 
warship. Conditions improved slightly for those aboard, with damaged 
electricity facilities restored to the point where the air conditioning 
could be turned on for the crew, said Lt. Terrence Dudley, spokesman 
for the U.S. 5th Fleet. Temperatures have been in the 90s in Aden, 
and the crew has been without air conditioning since the explosion 
Thursday that killed 17 sailors in a suspected act of terrorism. Other 
officials said exhausted Cole sailors were spending some time resting 
aboard two other Navy ships after working until dawn Sunday to keep 
the ship afloat when a bulkhead collapsed. Pressure variations had 
blasted open the bulkhead while sailors were draining areas of the 
ship, sending more water flooding in. Electrical shorts kept crews 
from using the regular pumps, so they jury-rigged a system using firefighting 
equipment. The crew was to receive a visit Monday from Gen. Tommy 
Franks, Tampa, Fla.-based commander of the U.S. Central Command. Franks 
was also scheduled to meet with Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh, 
officials said. There has been no credible claim of responsibility 
for the apparent suicide attack, which killed 17 sailors, wounded 
39 others and punched a 40-by-40-foot hole in the hull. Yemeni security 
forces have detained more than a dozen people for questioning, but 
no arrests have been announced. As of Monday, the FBI was still having 
trouble getting its entire contingent of explosives experts, evidence 
technicians and investigators to Yemen, according to two federal law 
enforcement officials in Washington. These officials said about 30 
FBI agents had reached Yemen and were arranging facilities in a local 
hotel and abroad the USS Camden to accommodate the larger group. More 
than 70 FBI agents remained at the U.S. Air Force base in Ramstein, 
Germany, awaiting a flight to Yemen, which officials hoped would be 
able to leave later Monday. The blast ranks as the deadliest terrorist 
attack on the U.S. military since the bombing of an Air Force barracks 
in Saudi Arabia in 1996 that killed 19. U.S. officials have suspended 
naval stops in Aden, where the bodies of 10 victims remained missing. 
Crews were trying to reach the two visible and the 10 missing, perhaps 
trapped behind floors and walls bent wildly by the blast. In Virginia, 
doctors said some the injured would soon be released to go home. On 
Sunday, 33 of the injured were flown from a U.S. military hospital 
in Germany where they received initial care to the Cole's home port, 
Virginia's Norfolk Naval Station. Six injured sailors remained hospitalized 
in Germany. Four will likely return to the United States on Tuesday 
or Wednesday, while the two others will stay for at least another 
week, Col. James Rundell, deputy director of the Landstuhl Regional 
Medical Center in western Germany, said Monday. Meanwhile, terrorism 
and explosive experts combed through scenes described by a U.S. official 
as ``utter devastation.'' On the deck, ``confetti size'' pieces from 
the wooden attack boat were collected, the official said. Among the 
tasks for the investigators: looking for residue that could indicate 
the type of explosives. One of the officials said the power of the 
blast suggested ``more than just TNT'' _ which could suggest a well-organized 
and supplied group. The officials said the blast occurred shortly 
after the ship was secured to two buoys to begin refueling in the 
harbor, which was full of pleasure boats, fishing vessels and merchant 
ships. Two people on the attack boat reportedly stood at attention 
briefly before the explosion. The blast at the waterline was close 
to the dining area for senior enlisted officers. Most hands were busy 
finishing the docking. A few minutes later, however, and the mess 
area would have started to fill. Immediately after the explosion, 
the ship began to fill with oily water from the 40-foot deep harbor. 
The impact wrenched open hatches and buckled parts of the deck on 
the 4-year-old destroyer, whose modern construction may have helped 
it say afloat. Power was lost and generators were used to pump out 
water and keep the Cole afloat. The Cole will have to be moved from 
Aden for major repairs. A U.S. defense official said Monday the trip 
could begin in as soon as a few days, and would be made on the back 
of a vessel known as a heavy lift ship, like a floating dry dock capable 
of carrying ships of up to 30,000 tons. The unloaded Cole is 8,300 
tons. U.S. diplomats have insisted the Yemeni government is not suspected 
of any terrorists links. But security has been a key issue regarding 
Aden, the home base for an Islamic militant group founded by the brother 
of Afghan-based terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden _ accused of 
links to the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania 
that killed 224 people. Afghanistan's Taliban rulers denied bin Laden 
was involved, according to a Taliban statement published Monday in 
Pakistan's Urdu-language newspaper Jang. The Taliban said ``Osama 
cannot carry out such activities from Afghan territory.'' Bin Laden 
has been living in Afghanistan since 1996 when he fled Sudan. The 
Taliban have refused to hand him over to the United States. Bin Laden 
has criticized Yemen for allowing U.S. ships to refuel at Aden. The 
United States keeps a small port-based security contingent in Aden, 
but relies mostly on Yemeni authorities. Washington is eager to strengthen 
relations with Yemen as another foothold in the Arab world. U.S. officials 
dismissed questions that security risks were overshadowed by political 
objectives when warships began refueling in Aden in June 1999. About 
25 Navy vessels have used the port.