and in that same part of the world, on the attack on the american 
destroyer "uss cole", still no claims of responsible tonight. no hard 
evidence pointing to one terrorist group or one country. as jim miklaszewski 
reports now from the pentagon with 12 sailors still missing, the agony 
of the "cole" goes on. jim? tom the u.s. is stepping up efforts to 
find the attackers. the pentagon calls it operation determined response. 
the "uss cole," severely damaged, but stable today, the crew exhausted 
after battling to save the ship from flooding. the crew is focused, 
disciplined and well-trained. and more help is on the way. three amphibious 
ships with 2,000 heavily armed u.s. marines steaming toward "the cole" 
to provide additional security and support. meanwhile, new details 
emerging about that terrorist sneak attack. investigators report two 
suicide bombers pull alongside "the cole" in a 21-foot fiberglass 
boat that disintegrates into thousands of confetti-like pieces in 
the blast. with the force of one ton of tnt, the explosion tears through 
the half-inch steel hull, so powerful, it pushes the entire mess deck 
upward, almost flush with the deck above it, crushing everything in 
between. that's where two of the dead and the ten missing remain trapped, 
making recovery difficult. we have a very good idea of where they 
are. at the same time, the president of yemen pledges full cooperation 
in tracking down those responsible for the attack. yemen police detain 
and question more than 150 people connected to harbor operations, 
but no firm leads. fbi and counterterrorism officials are focusing 
instead on osama bin laden, seen here in a video released only three 
weeks ago, threatening action against united states troops in the 
middle east, including yemen. now, that should have sounded alarm 
bells here at the pentagon because the u.s. has no regular troops 
in yemen. the only ones even scheduled to visit were aboard the "uss 
cole". tom? thanks very much. jim miklaszewski tonight. as the survivors 
of the blast in yemen begin to make their way home, we are getting 
a first-hand and frightening look at those terrifying moments on board 
the ship. 19-year-old andrew nemeth, a fireman's apprentice, has been 
in the navy for almost a year and a half. tonight, andrew nemeth "in 
his own words." a couple minutes before the blast, i just walked out 
of my engine room -- i just got done cleaning up, and i walked out 
and went and got in the chow line, started talking with a couple of 
my buddies like normal. i went to grab my tray and get my food, and 
then the blast happened. i didn't hear really anything. i remember 
being up in the air and falling to the ground and having fuel sprayed 
all over me. that's why i, initially, thought one of the fuel lines 
busted. first instinct was to look around for any of my friends i 
could find, which i didn't see any because it was real smokey. we 
lost some people. they were my shipmates. they were pretty much like 
brothers and sisters to me. the term shipmate means more than it ever 
will again. andrew nemeth, one of the sailors who survived the blast 
on the "uss cole," "in his own words."