This is The World, a co-production of the BBC World Service, PRI, 
and WGBH in Boston. I am Lisa Mullins. In Yemen today security forces 
interrogated people who service US warships in the port of Aden. The 
authorities were investigating the case of last week's bombing of 
the USS Cole, which killed 17 American sailors. Yemen said today that 
it considers the blast a premeditated criminal act. That's an important 
reversal from the government's earlier position. It clears the way 
for US terrorism experts to work closely with Yemeni authorities. 
Mohammed al-Qadhi, the editor of the Yemen Observer in the capital 
Sana, says Yemeni investigators have already come up with evidence 
but have not yet disclosed it. This evidence has not been revealed 
yet because of the process of investigation, because they want to 
reach the criminals. One of the things they are saying they have as 
evidence are video pictures of the port. What sort of pictures are 
they talking about and have those pictures been passed on to American 
investigators? The photos talked about were camera, which is belonging 
to the Aden Free Zone port and they said that it had taken photos 
for the whole incident while it was happening. So they actually have 
an image of the bombs going off at the time? They haven't said what 
are they exactly because as I told you, they do not want these criminals 
who committed this incident to know what has been revealed yet. They 
are continuing the investigation and are following up the criminals 
in cooperation with the American side. In terms of that follow up 
it's been said that the government has made several arrests already. 
Do we know if they are connected to the bombing and do we know who 
was arrested? They arrested some suspected people and some people 
who were around the place of incident to find out some more information. 
Is the information, whatever they are gathering, being shared with 
US investigators? In other words do we know what kind of cooperation 
the US is getting from Yemeni authorities? They are having full cooperation 
with the American side, technical things and investigations themselves, 
and what is reached by both sides they inform each other to know how 
to follow up the incident. Do you know what it is that the United 
States is asking for from the Yemeni government in terms of cooperation 
in the investigation? I think this was clarified by President Salah 
and he said that they will cooperate with the Americans in all aspects, 
and today President Salah has met with the Commander of the American 
Navy and submitted evidence to him and they discussed cooperation 
in military side and the bilateral relations. I wonder if you can 
speak as the editor of this newspaper, I am not sure if you have the 
kind of tradition that American newspapers do and that's the 'Letter 
to the Editor' segment where you have some of your readers who write 
in. But I am curious to find out what people are saying about this 
incident and the kind of cooperation that the United States is looking 
for. What are you hearing from your readers? This incident should 
be committed by a foreign country and it's aimed to destroy the Yemeni-American 
relations, which until now is very good. Yemeni people do respect 
all western countries and they do not have anything to do against 
these countries. Yemenis want to develop their relations because we 
are a developing country and this is what all Yemenis are talking 
about. Mohammed al-Qadhi is the editor of the Yemen Observer in the 
capital of Yemen, Sana. Thank you very much. We appreciate it. Thank 
you very much.