The Serbian government issued a harsh warning to the democratic opposition 
on Tuesday, promising ``special measures'' and prosecutions against 
those organizing a spreading general strike intended to oust Yugoslav 
President Slobodan Milosevic. The statement, read on state television, 
heralded a counterattack on political leaders who are organizing the 
strikes to support Milosevic's challenger, Vojislav Kostunica, and 
on the independent news media reporting on the effort. Early Tuesday, 
the police arrested the head of the public-transport trade union, 
Dragoljub Stosic, and ordered protesters to clear away their obstacles 
blocking the bus garage. The government also announced that it was 
investigating allegations of sabotage against 11 organizers of a coal 
miners' strike at Kolubara and would seek their arrest. State television 
said that two opposition politicians who have helped the strikers, 
Nebojsa Covic and Boris Tadic, would also face charges. The opposition 
is trying to force Milosevic to concede an outright, first-round electoral 
victory to Kostunica, who says that only massive government vote fraud 
denied him the presidency outright in elections on Sept. 24. Milosevic 
is organizing a second-round runoff for Sunday that Kostunica vows 
to boycott, saying that his victory was stolen from him and that a 
runoff is unnecessary. In its statement on Tuesday, the government 
said, ``The violent behavior of individuals and groups that threatens 
citizens' lives, disrupts normal functioning of traffic, prevents 
normal work of industry, schools, institutions and health facilities 
will be proscribed by law.'' ``Special measures will be taken against 
the organizers of these criminal activities,'' the government said, 
adding, ``These measures also apply to media that are financed from 
abroad and are breeding lies, untruths and inciting bloodshed.'' The 
statement followed a televised address by Milosevic on Monday in which 
he labeled opposition leaders _ especially Zoran Djindjic, who is 
running the strike campaign _ as puppets of NATO and the West. While 
Milosevic did not name Djindjic, the reference was clear. The Milosevic 
government is trying to tough out increasingly detailed allegations 
of vote fraud. An opposition economist, Mladjan Dinkic, said on Tuesday 
that he had new evidence of vote fraud given to him by officials in 
the Federal Statistics Bureau, and that its head, Milovan Zivkovic, 
had told him privately that the truth was on the side of the opposition. 
Dinkic and his colleague, Miroljub Labus, said they had been given 
a copy of software used by the Federal Election Commission to distribute 
falsified and voided votes to Milosevic. In an interview, Labus said 
that the software had ``flags'' that gave operators options to include 
prefabricated voting totals into otherwise accurate results. He said 
the election commission appeared to have counted Kostunica's votes 
accurately but added ``not more than 170,000 votes'' to Milosevic's 
totals. Even with confusion about some 50,000 military votes, Labus 
said, ``I'm absolutely positive Kostunica was elected in the first 
round. It's a game of small numbers to push Kostunica under 50 percent. 
But even without the military votes, you find that he has a majority 
of over 51 percent.'' Dinkic said he also was thrown a computer disc 
from a window of the statistical bureau that contained election results 
from individual polling stations. But he refused to reveal the contents, 
saying that it was up to the electoral commission to come clean. An 
opposition appeal to the Constitutional Court for a recount of the 
first round will be heard on Wednesday morning. In the maneuvering, 
there is increasing concern, especially from Western governments, 
that the opposition will not push Milosevic from power quickly and 
that participation in Sunday's second round, despite clear evidence 
of vote fraud in the first, could be the best way to defeat Milosevic 
if some international guarantees could be negotiated. Western officials 
are pressing Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, who has influence 
over Milosevic, to work to resolve the dispute or somehow postpone 
the second round. To that end, officials said, Kostunica is expected 
to accept an invitation by Putin to travel to Moscow to discuss the 
election dispute, possibly on Thursday. Putin, who was in India on 
official business Tuesday, has also invited Milosevic, who has not 
ruled out attending, according to his brother, Borislav Milosevic, 
the Yugoslav ambassador to Moscow. Jiri Dienstbier, U.N. special investigator 
for human rights for the former Yugoslavia, said on Tuesday in Belgrade 
that there had been clear irregularities in the election and urged 
a recount. ``The results must have been manipulated,'' he said. The 
strike spread on Tuesday, with some 50,000 students in Belgrade toying 
with police by deciding to march from the city center toward Milosevic's 
home in the suburb Dedinje. The police turned the students back after 
amicable negotiations. The opposition says it wants to call hundreds 
of thousands of people Thursday from all over Serbia to Belgrade, 
where the suggestion may come up again. The students had earlier blocked 
traffic in Slavija Square with garbage containers, but the police 
removed them with no conflict. At least 30,000 people rallied in Novi 
Sad, and 10,000 gathered in Nis, two towns that are opposition strongholds. 
And 50,000 people in Kragujevac came to hear Kostunica speak. The 
police also removed some roadblocks elsewhere in Serbia, but the main 
road south was reported to be blocked near Cacak, a center of the 
opposition, which was nearly shut down. And police dispersed a rally 
of 2,000 protestors in Vranje, making at least a dozen arrests. Milosevic 
usually relies on his special police to counter demonstrations. But 
some police special units stood by while protesters blocked roads, 
and at least one special police battalion, the 92nd, based in Belgrade, 
turned in its riot equipment, the Belgrade press reported on Tuesday. 
In the northern town of Backa Palanka, local police commanders refused 
to obey orders from Belgrade to remove a roadblock across a main route. 
And a report that the head of the special police anti-terrorist units, 
Zivko Trajkovic, was demoted and shipped south to the town of Kursumlija 
has not been denied by the state news media. The state news media 
continued to seethe with protests and petitions demanding ``balanced 
news,'' but the main organs of state propaganda, Radio Television 
Serbia and the daily newspaper Politika, were largely unchanged on 
Tuesday. But some journalists in Politika called on their colleagues 
to consider a strike. Some regional state radio stations went on strike, 
in towns like Novi Sad and Nis, or simply stopped rebroadcasting state 
news. In another sign of trouble for Milosevic, the Yugoslav dinar 
weakened further on the black market; it cost 38 dinars to buy one 
German mark Tuesday, up from 28 dinars a month ago. The decline was 
a result of anxiety and of the government's desire to buy hard currency 
to finance necessary imports.