Missouri Gov. Mel Carnahan was killed in a plane crash Monday night, 
along with one of his sons and a campaign adviser, according to relatives 
of the adviser. Carnahan, Roger Carnahan and the governor's campaign 
adviser, Chris Sifford, all died in the crash, said Frank Sifford 
a nephew of Chris Sifford's father. Earlier, Jefferson County Sheriff's 
Department said the plane had crashed in a hilly wooded area south 
of St. Louis. Missouri Highway Patrol Sgt. Tim McDonald said debris 
from the crash was scattered, making identification of the plane difficult. 
He said the governor's security staff was at the crash site because 
they had not heard from Carnahan and ``tensions were high.'' The governor 
had been expected at a campaign rally at 8 p.m. in New Madrid, about 
150 miles south of St. Louis. McDonald said the governor's security 
staff was at the crash site because they had not heard from Carnahan 
and ``tensions were high.'' The governor had been expected at a campaign 
rally at 8 p.m. in New Madrid, about 150 miles south of St. Louis. 
Carnahan, 66, a popular Democratic governor finishing his second term, 
was running for the U.S. Senate seat held by Republican John Ashcroft. 
Their race has been one of the closest and most bitterly contested 
in the nation this year. Jerry Nachtigal, the governor's spokesman 
in Jefferson City, told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch that Carnahan, 
one of his sons and a staff member were scheduled to be on board the 
plane. He did not confirm the governor's plane was the one that crashed. 
At 11 p.m., the governor's office called Lt. Gov. Roger Wilson and 
the state treasurer to return to the Statehouse in Jefferson City 
immediately for an emergency, the newspaper reported. Both Carnahan 
and his son Randy were licensed pilots. Randy Carnahan normally flew 
the campaign plane on political events. Police said Lambert Airport 
in St. Louis was tracking the plane, which took off about 7 p.m. from 
a small airport across the Mississippi River in Illinois. The plane 
disappeared from the radar screen at 7:33 p.m. Officials said the 
plane went down about 25 miles from St. Louis. The area is thick with 
trees, scattered farm houses and fields and there was a light rain 
and heavy fog. ``We found wreckage in very small pieces spread over 
a large area. We have found some remains we cannot identify at this 
point,'' said Capt. Ed Kemp of the Jefferson County Sheriff's Department. 
He said it was unclear if the remains were those of one or more people. 
Tom Hunter, who lives near the crash site, told St. Louis television 
station KMOV he heard the plane flying over. ``I thought, 'What a 
crazy person in this kind of weather.' Next thing, sounded like it 
was in a very steep dive, the engine was just screaming,'' Hunter 
said. He said he heard a loud explosion and the sky turned red. ``That 
was it,'' Hunter said. ``It was total silence. I told my wife to call 
911.'' Vice President Al Gore, in St. Louis for Tuesday's third and 
final presidential debate, telephoned Carnahan's wife, Jean, after 
the news broke, Gore aides said. Carnahan won his first public election 
at age 26 as a municipal judge in his hometown of Rolla. He was elected 
to the Missouri House of Representatives two years later and served 
two terms, and later served as state treasurer. In 1988, Carnahan 
was elected lieutenant governor. In 1992, he won the governor's office 
in a landslide. He won a second term in 1996. The lieutenant governor 
would serve out the remainder of the governor's term. The candidates 
for governor on the November ballot are Democratic State Treasurer 
Bob Holden and Republican Rep. Jim Talent. In 1976, another Senate 
challenger in Missouri, state Rep. Jerry Litton, died in a plane crash 
as he and his family were flying to a victory celebration the night 
he won the Democratic nomination. ___ On the Net: Carnahan's site: 
http://www.gov.state.mo.us/bio.htm