Israel and the Palestinians agreed Tuesday to end the street violence 
that has torn their region apart for more than two weeks and to get 
back on the path toward a permanent solution to their conflict. Secretary 
of State Madeleine Albright said Tuesday's agreement _ the surprise 
conclusion to an emergency summit here _ was supposed to result in 
a cease-fire. ``A cease-fire should be happening within hours, immediately,'' 
she told CNN. Additionally, within two weeks the two sides were to 
meet with American mediators to explore the possibility of resuming 
talks, Albright said. Musing on the future in an interview with The 
Associated Press, Albright said it was not clear whether the two sides 
would do everything they could to implement the agreement and end 
the fighting. She paused briefly and then added firmly: ``They will 
have to do it.'' With that, she planned to fly to Riyadh to confer 
with leaders in Saudi Arabia. And President Clinton headed for Air 
Force One, hurrying home for his next painful mission _ attending 
a memorial service for the 17 sailors killed last Thursday in an apparent 
terrorist attack on the USS Cole in Yemen. The agreement reached here 
was not made public and Israeli Prime Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader 
Yasser Arafat left the ceremony without saying anything. Still, it 
was clear from Clinton's announcement that both sides made major compromises. 
Arafat backed away from his demand for an international fact-finding 
commission into the causes of the turmoil on the West Bank, in Gaza 
and in Israel. Barak yielded to demands that he pull back Israeli 
troops that have killed scores of Palestinians. In a concession, a 
U.S. official said Arafat agreed to rearrest the Islamic militants 
who were released from jail last week _ one of Israel's demands. Clinton 
did not use the term ``cease-fire.'' Instead, he said both sides agreed 
on ``immediate concrete measures'' to end the violence. ``I believe 
we have made real progress today,'' Clinton said. ``Repairing the 
damage will take time.'' Barak, speaking later, told an Israeli television 
station, ``The coming days will tell whether we still have a partner. 
Reality has to change in a significant way. The events of the last 
few weeks left their mark on us ... we will examine, as will the Americans, 
whether it is possible to renew the negotiations.'' But in the immediate 
aftermath of the summit announcement, Palestinian militiamen shot 
at homes in a Jewish neighborhood of Jerusalem and Israel responded 
with tank-mounted machine gun fire, but no one was hurt. Word of the 
truce was greeted by skepticism from both Israelis and Palestinians. 
In the Gaza Strip, hundreds of Palestinians threw rocks and several 
firebombs at an Israeli military checkpoint. Palestinian medics said 
10 demonstrators were hurt, including one who was in serious condition. 
The Israeli army said a sniper shot and injured a firebomb thrower, 
but that there were no additional casualties. The Palestinian delegation 
went from the summit hall directly to the airport and flew back to 
Gaza. They made no comment to reporters in Egypt. Clinton spelled 
out the three elements of the agreement: _Both sides agreed to publicly 
call for an end to violence, eliminate points of friction, maintain 
calm and the recurrence of the recent uprisings. He said the United 
States will help with security issues, if needed. _The United States 
will develop with both sides and the UN a fact-finding committee to 
investigate the events of the past several weeks. _ The leaders agreed 
that the United States will consult with the parties within the next 
two weeks about how to move forward. ``We should have no illusions 
about the difficulties ahead,'' Clinton said. ``If we are going to 
rebuild confidence and trust we must all do our part, avoiding recrimination 
and moving forward. I'm counting on each of us to do everything we 
possibly can in the critical period ahead.'' Later, aboard Air Force 
One, a senior administration official, told reporters: ``They've agreed 
to all the steps we had hoped they would agree to. There were a lot 
of uncertainties here. Implementation is not going to be easy. This 
remains a very tense and dangerous area. It only takes one person 
to shoot a gun or throw a rock.'' ``Their desire to come back together 
and discuss the resumption of the negotiation process suggests to 
me that they both want to see negotiations resume,'' he added. The 
official said Clinton would select members of the fact-finding commission 
in consultation with both sides. Its task will be to investigate the 
sudden outbreak of violence.