Gov. Mel Carnahan, the Democratic candidate in one of the most hotly 
contested U.S. Senate races in the country, was killed when the plane 
shuttling him to a campaign rally crashed in rainy, foggy weather. 
The Cessna 335 also carrying Carnahan's son Roger and campaign adviser 
Chris Sifford, 37, went down Monday night 25 miles south of St. Louis. 
They had been en route to a rally for Carnahan, 66, who was running 
against Republican Sen. John Ashcroft. There were no survivors, said 
Jerry Nachtigal, the governor's spokesman. Five investigators from 
the National Transportation Safety Board were expected to arrive Tuesday 
in St. Louis. ``We found wreckage in very small pieces spread over 
a large area. We have found some remains we cannot identify at this 
point,'' Jefferson County Sheriff's Capt. Ed Kemp said. Ashcroft's 
campaign immediately suspended all advertising ``out of respect for 
Governor Carnahan and his family,'' Ashcroft campaign manager David 
Ayres said. The race had been a dead heat for months. A Zogby poll 
taken for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch the first week of September 
gave Ashcroft 45 percent and Carnahan 43 percent, within the 4-point 
margin of error. Carnahan's name will stay on the Nov. 7 ballot because 
the deadline for changing it was Oct. 13, Secretary of State Bekki 
Cook said. Lt. Gov. Roger Wilson will serve out the remainder of Carnahan's 
term, until Jan. 8. Under the state Constitution, his title is acting 
governor. If more voters cast ballots for Carnahan than Ashcroft on 
Nov. 7, the seat would become vacant when Ashcroft's current term 
ends Jan. 3, Cook said. Wilson, a Democrat, would have constitutional 
authority to appoint a senator to fill the vacancy through the November 
2002 general election, when the seat would be up for election, Cook 
said. The deaths prompted discussion of whether Tuesday night's presidential 
debate in St. Louis should be postponed. Tuesday morning, though, 
a Republican souce speaking on condition of anonymity said the debate 
would go forward. The NTSB said the twin-engine plane, a six-seater, 
was registered to a law firm where Roger Carnahan, 44, was a partner. 
The younger Carnahan was piloting the plane. The governor had been 
expected at the rally at 8 p.m. in New Madrid, about 125 miles south 
of the crash site, which was thick with trees, scattered farm houses 
and fields. State Sen. Jerry Howard, who was at the rally, said Roy 
Temple, executive director of the Missouri Democratic Party, got a 
page around 8 p.m. from Sifford. Sifford told Temple the governor's 
plane had encountered lightning and was going to return to St. Louis 
or Jefferson City, Howard said. Tom Hunter, who lives near the crash 
site, said he heard the plane flying overhead. ``I thought, 'What 
a crazy person in this kind of weather.' Next thing, sounded like 
it was in a very steep dive, the engine was just screaming,'' Hunter 
told St. Louis TV station KMOV. He said he heard a loud explosion 
and the sky turned red. ``That was it,'' Hunter said. ``It was total 
silence. I told my wife to call 911.'' In Jefferson City at dawn Tuesday, 
Susie Shultz, a state employee, brought red mums to the governor's 
mansion. ``I thought he was wonderful,'' she said. ``He did so much 
for our state. Mel Carnahan was the education man. He was for the 
right things.'' Carnahan won his first public election at age 26 as 
a municipal judge in his hometown of Rolla. He was elected to the 
Missouri House of Representatives two years later and served two terms 
before becoming state treasurer. In 1988, Carnahan was elected lieutenant 
governor. Four years later, he won the governor's office in a landslide 
and was re-elected in 1996. He was barred by state law from seeking 
a third consecutive term as governor. ``Governor Carnahan always believed 
public service was a noble calling,'' Nachtigal said. ``We will miss 
him dearly.'' President Clinton called Carnahan's wife, Jean, to express 
condolences while he was at the Mideast summit in Egypt. The couple 
had four children. ``He's known him for a long time. They've worked 
together on a lot of issues,'' Clinton spokesman Jake Siewert said. 
In 1976, another Senate challenger in Missouri, U.S. Rep. Jerry Litton, 
died in a plane crash as he and his family were flying to a victory 
celebration the night he won the Democratic nomination. The last governor 
to die in office was Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles on Dec. 12, 1998. 
The 68-year-old collapsed while exercising in the governor's mansion 
gymnasium. South Dakota Gov. George Mickelson died in 1993 when the 
state's airplane slammed into a silo in eastern Iowa. ___ On the Net: 
Missouri State Government: http://www.gov.state.mo.us National Governors' 
Association: http://www.nga.org/subtocnga.htm John Ashcroft: www.johnashcroft.com 
Mel Carnahan: www.carnahan2000.com