The bodies of six more American sailors were recovered Tuesday from 
the crippled destroyer USS Cole in Yemen, and the search continued 
for six others believed still aboard, U.S. officials said. Pentagon 
spokesman Rear Adm. Craig Quigley said the identities of the six recovered 
remains would be released once the families had been notified. He 
said the Navy initially believed that seven remains had been recovered 
but revised that to six. In all, 17 sailors were killed in what U.S. 
officials believe was a terrorist suicide attack on the Cole last 
Thursday while it was refueling in Aden. Five bodies were recovered 
last week and were flown back to the United States. Two other bodies 
had been spotted aboard the ship last week but could not be removed 
due to the extreme damage caused by the bomb. In addition, there were 
10 whom the Navy presumed had been killed but could not be found. 
The recovery of six bodies Tuesday left six others to be accounted 
for. The search was continuing. Over the weekend, the Navy sent a 
22-member team of specialists with 10 tons of equipment to cut through 
the twisted steel inside the ship and find the sailors who were listed 
as missing. Navy officials said they knew approximately where the 
bodies were but could not reach them because of the extensive damage. 
A memorial service for victims of the bombing is scheduled Wednesday 
at Norfolk Naval Station, the Cole's home port in Virginia. President 
Clinton and Defense Secretary William Cohen plan to attend. The presumed 
final death count of 17 makes this the worst terrorist attack on the 
American military since a truck bomb ripped through a U.S. Air Force 
housing complex near Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, in June 1996, killing 
19 troops. Quigley said the Cole remained stable in the Aden harbor, 
and that two additional Navy ships _ the amphibious warships USS Anchorage 
and the USS Duluth _ arrived Tuesday to provide more assistance for 
the crew of the Cole. A third ship, the amphibious assault ship USS 
Tarawa, is due in Aden Wednesday, he said. The Anchorage, Duluth and 
Tarawa are carrying a combined total of 2,100 Marines. There also 
are 101 Marines aboard the Cole providing security, Quigley said. 
Quigley also announced that the Navy signed a $4.5 million contract 
with the Norwegian owners of the heavy-lift ship Blue Marlin to carry 
the Cole back to a U.S. port after the FBI finishes its investigation 
aboard ship. The Blue Marlin, currently in port in Dubai on the Persian 
Gulf, will head for Aden on Thursday, arriving four or five days later, 
Quigley said. About a week later it will begin hauling the Cole back 
to the United States, he said.