good evening. as presidential candidates george w. bush and al gore 
prepare to meet in their final debate, a town hall format at washington 
university in st. louis, they'll be appearing in a state shocked by 
the loss of its governor in an overnight plane crash. and no doubt 
they'll be asked about today's developments in the middle east, including 
the biggest break yet in the terrorist attack on the "uss cole." more 
bodies were recovered from the wrecked area of the ship today. we 
begin with the "uss cole" story tonight, nbc's jim miklaszewski at 
the pentagon. jim? u.s. officials report significant process tonight 
in the "cole" destination, even as they continue to recover the dead. 
the bodies of six sailors, killed in the terrorist blast, are recovered 
from the "cole" today. the grim search continues for six more victims, 
still trapped in the twisted hull. back on shore, the investigation 
is building steam. yemen authorities discover bombmaking materials 
in an apartment in this neighborhood near the port, the apparent safe 
house for the suicide bombers. they also recover a car and boat trailer 
at dockside and find a witness, a 12-year-old boy, who says he watched 
the terrorists launch the boat loaded with explosives. two suspects 
are detained and questioned in aden. evidence from the "cole" are 
already back at fbi headquarters tonight for analysis. nothing conclusive 
yet, but encouraging to u.s. ambassador, barbara bodine. certainly 
from yesterday to today, it has been a quantum leap. terrorist usama 
bin laden is a prime suspect in the "cole" bombing. today he warns 
the u.s. not to launch retaliatory strikes against him. two years 
ago, the u.s. launched air strikes against bin laden targets in sudan 
and afghanistan, after he was linked to the bombings of two u.s. embassies 
in africa. meanwhile, more injured sailors arrived back home in norfolk 
tonight. a memorial service for their ship mates killed on the "cole" 
set for tomorrow. washington officials want to extradite any suspects 
arrested in yemen to stand trial here in the u.s. and while the pentagon 
says it's still way too early to talk about military retaliation, 
one official says, "we've got our finger on the trigger." tom? thank 
you very much, nbc's jim miklaszewski.