back on the american political landscape, the wreckage of a small 
plane south of st. louis is a stunning reminder of the unexpected 
turns in the political fortunes of candidates and parties alike. missouri 
governor mel carnahan, his son and an aide were killed when the plane 
went down en route to a campaign stop where carnahan was to have pressed 
his race for the u.s. senate. nbc's robert hager tonight on the crash. 
the plane goes in hard, spreads wreckage over several hundred yards 
of woodland and takes the lives of governor carnahan, his son roger 
-- believed piloting -- and campaign aide chris sifford. all heading 
from st. louis to a campaign stop in new madrid, missouri. it appears 
they start to turn back because of rough weather, when they radio 
that the plane's onboard gyroscope has problems. shortly after, the 
plane disappears from radar. all of a sudden, i heardnb his engine 
just revving for all its worth. he was flying along and then, "err-r-r!" 
loud boom, big red sky, explosion, that was it, total silence. when 
he hit, it was just -- just everything shook. and i have a cement-reinforced 
house. the bed shook. everything just shook. i mean, i wasn't even 
sure if it had hit the house or not. that's how loud it was. the plane 
-- a twin-engine cessna, like this. its gyroscope, like this, operates 
key instruments like the altitude indicator that tells a pilot if 
the plane's climbing, descending or banking. without that altitude 
indicator, a pilot in dark and rain could lose track, tip the plane 
over and fall from the sky -- just what investigators believe happened 
to john f. kennedy jr. there are backup instruments that do not depend 
on the gyroscope, and instrument-rated pilots like the governor's 
son are trained to use them, but it's not easy. former military investigator 
tom farrier -- flying what's called "partial panel," with only part 
of your instruments working, is one of the most demanding skills that 
a pilot has to practice. and when you are confronted with a nighttime-in-cloud 
situation, it's all the more challenging. an early theory. but a challenge 
for investigators. ntsb's carol carmody -- the pieces are small, as 
small as this, in many cases. but it's those small pieces of instruments 
that may eventually tell investigators just what happened here. robert 
hager, nbc news, washington. the death of governor carnahan has political 
implications, obviously. his name will remain on the senate ballot. 
it's too late for democrats to replace him, according to state election 
laws. if carnahan's name gets more votes than his republican opponent, 
the senator ashkroft, the acting governor most analysts say that is 
unlikely, and carnahan's death will effectively dash any hopes the 
democrats had of regaining a majority in the senate this year.