nbc news "in depth" tonight -- presidential politics, the third and 
final debate between vice president al gore and governor george w. 
bush at washington university in st. louis -- an event with very high 
stakes and with both candidates rattled by the sudden death of missouri's 
governor. nbc's claire shipman and david gregory are in st. louis. 
let's begin with claire shipman with the gore campaign -- what can 
we expect tonight? well, tom, gore has done very little in the way 
of formal preparations today in keeping with his desire to focus on 
relaxing more than studying. his campaign was hit hard by governor 
carnahan's death. gore has campaigned with carnahan and he made an 
unscheduled stop by carnahan campaign headquarters to offer condolences. 
we've been told there will be a moment of silence at the start of 
the debate and that gore will probably say something about the governor. 
despite the tragedy, don't look for gore to be overly somber tonight. 
aides say they are looking for and counting on an energetic performance. 
gore has participated in more than 1,000 town hall meetings. none 
more important than tonight. he knows he has to connect. and his record 
running state of texas. tom? let's go to david gregory who's covering 
the bush campaign. what can we expect on that side of the aisle? as 
you can expect, governor bush's mood has darkened as well. he said 
today along with the democrats, he and the campaign will put all campaign 
ads in the state of missouri out of respect. and he will skip a post 
debate rally that was scheduled tonight and he echoed the view of 
some of his advisers who wonder whether the mood will soften what 
might have otherwise been a hard-edged debate tonight. but bush's 
advisers are confident they say the pressure's on gore to perform. 
bush, they say, has to keep up what he's doing in the past two debates, 
keep up that strong showing and he will do well. one word about format 
-- not bush's favorite. he's not used to unscripted questions during 
town hall meetings and sometimes can be flustered by them the off-the-cuff 
questions that come up. tom? thank you very much, david gregory.