Investigators found bomb-making equipment in an apartment near the 
port of Aden and believe two former occupants may have carried out 
the suicide bombing that killed 17 sailors aboard the USS Cole, security 
officials said Tuesday. U.S. authorities would not comment directly 
on the disclosure. But the ambassador, Barbara Bodine, described the 
investigation as advancing ``a quantum leap.'' ``We are very hopeful 
we are going to get to the bottom of this,'' she said. Yemeni officials, 
who spoke on condition of anonymity, identified the missing men only 
as non-Yemeni Arabs. Other Yemeni officials said they were from neighboring 
Saudi Arabia. Moments before the huge blast Thursday, two men were 
seen standing on the deck of a small vessel alongside the destroyer, 
U.S. authorities said. A 40-by-40-foot hole was blown into the Cole's 
hull and the attack ship disintegrated into ``confetti size'' pieces. 
On Tuesday, divers and other crew members using metal-slicing torches 
and crowbars pulled six more bodies from the tangled bowels of the 
Cole. Officials initially said seven bodies were recovered Tuesday, 
but later corrected the figure. Six victims remain trapped near the 
blast site. In Virginia, four of the more seriously wounded Cole sailors 
arrived at Norfolk Naval Station after a flight from Germany. Most 
of the 39 injured sailors had arrived in Virginia over the weekend, 
while two critically injured shipmates remain at the military's Landstuhl 
Regional Medical Center in western Germany. Speaking about the two 
suspects, the Yemeni officials said the apartment was searched Monday, 
when Yemen reversed an earlier position and called the blast ``a premeditated 
criminal act.'' A senior Saudi intelligence official visited Aden 
on Monday, but no details of the meeting were made public. The Yemeni 
officials would give no further information on the material found, 
but said the missing men arrived in Yemen four days before Thursday's 
attack. Bodine declined to comment on details of the case or speculate 
on possible links to larger terrorist groups, including that of Afghan-based 
Saudi dissident Osama bin Laden. She stressed that the investigation 
would continue. ``We want this investigation to go further ... to 
see how far back we can walk this. And those kinds of investigations 
can sometimes take some time,'' she said. The Yemeni find could be 
a key break on the first day of work for a joint FBI-Yemeni task force. 
The hunt, however, is already well under way. So far, Yemeni security 
forces have interrogated hundreds of port workers and others, including 
the head of the company that services U.S. warships. Some fragments 
from the blast were shipped to the United States for analysis by the 
first FBI agents to arrive after the attack. That initial evidence 
arrived on U.S. shores Monday night. There has been no credible claim 
of responsibility for the deadliest terrorist attack on the U.S. military 
since the 1996 bombing of an Air Force barracks in Saudi Arabia that 
killed 19. Immediate suspicion fell on bin Laden, accused in the 1998 
bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 224 people. 
In retaliation, the United States fired dozens of Tomahawk cruise 
missiles at his suspected stronghold in eastern Afghanistan. In his 
first statement since December 1998, bin Laden said Tuesday that another 
such attack would not kill him or deter his battle against the ``enemies 
of Islam.'' He made no direct reference to the Aden attack. Afghanistan's 
Taliban rulers on Monday denied bin Laden was involved, but also said 
Tuesday that he could not have issued a statement because all means 
of communications have been denied him. FBI Director Louis Freeh transferred 
the investigation from Washington to the command of John O'Neill in 
the New York field office, which handled the East African embassy 
bombing cases. But U.S. officials denied this meant they could link 
the blast to bin Laden at this point. The full FBI team is expected 
to swell to 100 agents. Seventy are already in Aden, and 30 others 
are waiting in Germany for accommodations to be arranged. Many Yemenis 
have said they do not believe the attack was the result of a homegrown 
plot, and Tuesday's disclosures put the spotlight on Saudi Arabia. 
Bin Laden is a Saudi national of Yemeni heritage. Border disputes 
have marred relations between Yemen and Saudi Arabia, but an agreement 
was signed in June to seek a solution. Yemen has long contested the 
Saudi claim to three Red Sea islands and parts of the Empty Quarter, 
a vast desert region with potentially lucrative oil deposits. Aboard 
the stricken Cole, wreckage specialists fought their way through collapsed 
bulkheads and a maze of twisted metal to reach bodies. Above the oily 
harbor water, blowtorches cut slowly through the reinforced steel. 
Beneath them, in the cavern created by the blast, divers poked slowly 
through murky passages and fissures. The divers _ some of whom plucked 
victims from the doomed TWA 800 flight near Long Island in 1996 _ 
carried tools to try to pry apart the metal trapping the bodies. The 
bodies recovered Tuesday were found above and below the water line, 
said Rear Adm. Mark Fitzgerald, who is leading naval operations in 
the area. The cause of death: ``trauma from the blast,'' he said. 
Five bodies were recovered last week and were flown back to the United 
States. A memorial service for victims of the bombing is scheduled 
Wednesday at Norfolk Naval Station, the Cole's home port in Virginia. 
President Clinton and Defense Secretary William Cohen plan to attend. 
Security worries in Aden have mounted as more American investigators 
arrive in a nation the State Department described as a ``haven'' for 
terrorists. Efforts are made to keep most personnel either on other 
U.S. warships just offshore or in a hotel guarded by Yemeni soldiers 
and U.S. Marines. U.S. Navy officials say it could be weeks before 
the Cole can be raised onto a heavy lift ship and transported back 
to the United States for repairs. Nearly a week after the blast, one 
Cole sailor said she still has difficulty absorbing the aftermath. 
``The first time I got a chance to sleep for an hour or so ... I woke 
up and I forgot,'' said Lt. Ann Chamberlain, of Washington, D.C.. 
``It's weird.''