As rescue workers and federal officials searched a remote wooded area 
Tuesday for wreckage of a twin-engine plane that carried Gov. Mel 
Carnahan, his son and a campaign adviser, an investigator said the 
pilot had reported an instrument problem moments before the plane 
crashed on Monday night. The governor's son, Roger Carnahan, 44, who 
was flying the plane, reported experiencing trouble with the ``gyro,'' 
said an official close to the investigation who spoke on the condition 
of anonymity. Pilots rely on several gyroscopes and gyrocompasses 
to read a plane's direction and orientation, and it was unclear which 
gyro the pilot was referring to, the official said. The instruments 
become even more important in rain and clouds, the conditions on Monday 
night. Under those conditions, pilots can become disoriented and think 
a gyroscope's warning of danger is inaccurate. It could take months, 
though, for the cause of the crash to become clearer. But Robert Bartlett, 
manager of St. Louis Downtown Parks Airport, in Cahokia, Ill., where 
the plane took off at 7 p.m., said, ``There was no unusually unsafe 
weather or even unusual weather'' for flying on Monday night. In fact, 
he said that several planes arrived and departed within 10 minutes 
of the governor's plane taking off. ``They had no problems,'' Bartlett 
said, referring to other planes. ``We had arrivals and departures 
until we closed at 9 p.m.'' The National Weather Service in St. Louis 
said that visibility at the time of the crash was 3 miles and that 
the area was having ``moderate to heavy rain,'' although apparently 
there was no lightning. Many mourners and well-wishers gathered outside 
the Governor's Mansion in Jefferson City, where they placed hundreds 
of flowers, small presents and cards. Many state employees had begun 
wearing black lapel pins to remember the three men who died. Jerry 
Nachtigal, the governor's press secretary, said Tuesday afternoon 
that the 45 to 50 employees who worked with Carnahan, 66, were ``devastated.'' 
``It didn't matter if it was a cabinet oficial or a courier, in this 
office Governor Carnahan always had a kind word,'' Nachtigal said. 
``He knew that person's first name and probably knew all his or her 
children as well. We were all very fond of Governor Carnahan.'' The 
governor had been expected at a campaign rally at 8 p.m. Monday in 
New Madrid, about 150 miles south of St. Louis. The twin-engine plane, 
a 1980 Cessna 335, disappeared from radar at 7:33 p.m., said Elizabeth 
Isham Cory, a spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration. 
It crashed about 5 miles north of Hillsboro, the Jefferson County 
seat. Capt. Ed Kemp, of the Jefferson County sheriff's department, 
said witnesses reported hearing ``what sounded like an engine revving 
up in a dive, then they heard an explosion and saw a ball of fire.'' 
Also killed in the crash was Chris Sifford, 37, an adviser to Carnahan 
in his race to unseat Sen. John Ashcroft, a Republican. The plane 
was registered to Roger Carnahan's law firm, Carnahan Hickle &AMP; 
Calvert in Rolla, officials said. Cory said Roger Carnahan was an 
instrument-rated pilot who was licensed on July 31, 1988. Records 
show that neither he nor the plane had been involved in any prior 
accidents. Tuesday's search was made more difficult by what officials 
described as ``hilly, rough terrain.'' Carol Carmody, a spokeswoman 
for the National Transportation Safety Board, which is investigating 
the crash, said the agency's ``first priority is to identify the remains.'' 
Carnahan's plane crash revived memories of a similar plane crash involving 
another popular Missouri Democrat 24 years ago. It was an August election 
night in 1976. Jerry Litton, a two-term congressman from Chillicothe, 
was winning the Democratic primary for U.S. Senate. Shortly after 
taking off from Chillicothe for a short flight to Kansas City, the 
plane crashed into a field and burned. Litton, his wife, Sharon, their 
two children, the pilot and the pilot's son died. Pilot error and 
a problem with the plane's left engine were blamed. John C. Danforth, 
a Republican who at the time was Missouri's attorney general, won 
the election and remained in the Senate for 18 years. Across the state 
Tuesday night, residents expressed shock over Carnahan's death. Hardest 
hit by the news of the crash were the governor's supporters and staff. 
``We're just stunned and saddened almost beyond belief. These were 
just two very fine men, both father and son,'' said William Hickle, 
Roger Carnahan's law partner. ``And it's just hard to lose them in 
such a tragic manner. We love them both very much.''