Almost forgotten in the euphoria of Yugoslavia's new democratic era 
are the losers _ the estimated 2 million people who voted for Slobodan 
Milosevic in the conviction that only he could save the nation. Now, 
as the majority who voted against Milosevic celebrates its victory, 
many of those who supported him are shutting out life rather than 
trying to make sense of a world turned upside down. Some stare blankly 
into space after turning from television or newspapers that used to 
lionize Milosevic but now vilify him. Others retreat into isolation, 
rebuffing attempts by family members to coax them into facing a new 
world with new leaders and values. ``Can you imagine, how the masses 
feel?'' said psychologist Zarko Trebjesanin. ``These are the people 
who were told the Milosevic can do nothing wrong for 13 years. Now, 
almost overnight, black is white and day is night.'' ``These people 
need help,'' Trebjesanin said. ``There are great mental breakdowns 
taking place across Serbia.'' Worst affected are the elderly, who 
embraced Milosevic and his message of Serbian superiority in the late 
1980s with the death of another figure of authority, Communist leader 
Josip Broz Tito and the demise of another world they believed in _ 
his Yugoslavia of multinational tolerance. Milosevic's formula was 
simple. During his 13 years in power, his loyal state media pounded 
home one message; Slobo is Serbia, the dominant Yugoslav republic 
and Milosevic's past power base. Political opponents were labeled 
traitors and NATO spies. Kosovo Albanians were terrorists supported 
by the United States. As Serbia's isolation grew, so did the paranoiac 
conviction among millions of Milosevic supporters only he could save 
the nation. Now after losing Sept. 24 elections and being swept out 
of power by street protests, Milosevic is under virtual house arrest. 
His aides are being ousted. Milosevic's successor, President Vojislav 
Kostunica, hobnobs with yesterday's villains: representatives of the 
United States and other NATO nations that bombed Yugoslavia last year. 
And yesterday's ``rats, hyenas and lapdogs'' _ the shorthand used 
by the strongman's spin-doctors for opposition leaders _ now dominate 
television broadcasts with daily revelations of how the past regime 
duped the people for its own gain. Katarina, who spoke on condition 
her family name not be used, says her 72-year-old father-in-law devoured 
pro-Milosevic election programs in the weeks leading up to the elections. 
``He hasn't watched since,'' she said. When Milosevic acknowledged 
losing Oct. 6, her father-in-law turned off the set, she said, and 
walked downstairs into his basement workshop, where he spends much 
of each day. He refuses to talk to his family after being laughed 
at for insisting Milosevic lost only because the CIA funneled billions 
of dollars to the opposition. ``He's in his own world,'' says Katarina. 
``He is afraid to admit that Milosevic was wrong, because then he'd 
have to face the fact that his life was worth nothing.'' For the father-in-law 
of the psychologist Trebjesanin, the world fell apart while he was 
counting ballots as a helper at a Belgrade polling station. Kostunica 
won 800 ballots there to Milosevic's 320. ``He really didn't think 
Milosevic could lose,'' says Trebjesanin. ``It was a huge shock, but 
he couldn't escape it _ he saw it with his own eyes.'' Now, his wife's 
father is slowly coming around, as he starts to accept that past truths 
were lies. ``It's touching, really,'' Trebjesanin says. ``This man, 
several decades older than me, is like a child, telling us things 
that we adults had known for such a long time.'' Others, too, are 
grappling with the new realities. Soaking up the autumn sun on a bench 
in Belgrade's Kalemegdan park with fellow pensioners, Djuro says many 
cried when they learned of Milosevic's defeat, ``We never believed 
Slobo would lose,'' says Obrad, another retiree, who, like Djuro, 
asked that his last name not be used. ``Now we have to deal with a 
new world. ``If it's true what they say about Slobo, then maybe it's 
time for me to repent.''