Gov. Mel Carnahan's death in the crash of a small plane piloted by 
his son sent Missouri into mourning for the beloved politician Tuesday 
and cut short one of the hardest-fought Senate races in the nation. 
The twin-engine plane went down Monday night in rain and fog south 
of St. Louis en route to a campaign rally, killing the 66-year-old 
Carnahan, his 44-year-old son Roger Carnahan and an aide, Chris Sifford, 
37. No one else was aboard. The Jefferson County Medical Examiner's 
Office identified the bodies of the governor and Sifford early Wednesday. 
The cause of the crash was not immediately known, but Federal Aviation 
Administration spokeswoman Elizabeth Isham Cory said the pilot reported 
a ``gyro problem'' shortly before the plane vanished from radar. A 
gyroscope is a dashboard instrument that helps the pilot with basic 
orientation and sense of horizon _ distinguishing level flight from 
banking, turning from straight and climbing from descent. Members 
of the National Transportation Safety Board said a report would take 
months to complete. Mourners gathered at the governor's mansion in 
Jefferson City shortly after daybreak as the news spread. ``He did 
so much for our state,'' said Susie Shultz, a state employee who brought 
red chrysanthemums. ``Mel Carnahan was the education man. He was for 
the right things.'' The two-term Democrat was locked in a tight and 
sometimes bitter Senate race with Republican Sen. John Ashcroft, who 
suspended campaign advertising and other operations after the crash. 
``Obviously this is not a time for politics. This is a time for the 
state to come together,'' Ashcroft said. ``Gov. Carnahan served the 
people of Missouri with dignity and honor for more than four decades. 
I will remember him and all of Missouri will remember him for that 
exemplary public service and for his dedication to his family, as 
a husband, as a father and as a grandfather.'' There was talk of postponing 
the third presidential debate between Vice President Al Gore and Texas 
Gov. George W. Bush in St. Louis on Tuesday night. But Carnahan's 
wife, Jean, insisted it go on. She said her husband would have wanted 
it that way. In a statement, Bush praised Carnahan as ``a thoughtful, 
distinguished man who was dedicated to quality education and excellence 
in public service.'' Gore, who wore a black ribbon on his lapel, said 
he was ``deeply saddened'' and hailed Carnahan's work on education 
and other issues. The Cessna 335 took off from an airport in Cahokia, 
Ill., across the Mississippi River from St. Louis, for a 145-mile 
flight to New Madrid, where the governor was to attend a Monday night 
rally. Visibility at the time was three-fourths of a mile to two miles. 
The plane _ registered to a law firm where Roger Carnahan was a partner 
_ crashed 25 miles south of St. Louis in hilly, wooded country. Sifford 
had paged the state Democratic Party director and told him the plane 
had encountered lightning and would return to St. Louis or Jefferson 
City, state Sen. Jerry Howard said. Tom Hunter, who lives near the 
crash site, said he heard the plane flying overhead and thought it 
sounded like it was in a steep dive. ``I thought, `What a crazy person 
in this kind of weather,''' Hunter told St. Louis TV station KMOV. 
He said he heard an explosion and the sky turned red. ``That was it,'' 
he said. ``It was total silence. I told my wife to call 911.'' FAA 
spokesman Roland Herwig said there were no previous accidents, incidents 
or service difficulty reports on the 1980 Cessna. Roger Carnahan received 
his pilot's license in 1988 and was authorized to fly aircraft both 
by sight and using only instruments. ``He was as close as it comes 
to the top when it comes to training,'' Cory said. President Clinton 
called Carnahan's wife to express condolences while he was at the 
Mideast summit in Egypt. ``He's known him for a long time. They've 
worked together on a lot of issues,'' Clinton spokesman Jake Siewert 
said. Lt. Gov. Roger Wilson will serve out the remainder of Carnahan's 
term, until Jan. 8. The campaign, one of the key races in the Democrats' 
effort to retake control of the Senate, had been a dead heat for months. 
The most recent poll, taken for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch last month, 
gave Ashcroft 45 percent and Carnahan 43 percent, within the 4-point 
margin of error. Carnahan's name will stay on the Nov. 7 ballot because 
the deadline to change it has passed. If Carnahan receives the most 
votes, Wilson, a Democrat, can appoint a replacement to serve until 
the next general election, in November 2002. Carnahan, the son of 
a seven-term congressman, won his first public election at 26 as a 
municipal judge in his hometown of Rolla. He was elected to the Missouri 
House two years later and served two terms. He served as state treasurer, 
and was elected lieutenant governor in 1988. Four years later, he 
won the governor's office in a landslide and was re-elected in 1996. 
He was barred by state law from seeking a third consecutive term. 
The last governor to die in office was Florida's Lawton Chiles in 
1998. The 68-year-old collapsed while exercising in the governor's 
mansion gymnasium. South Dakota Gov. George Mickelson died in 1993 
when his state airplane slammed into a silo in Iowa. ___ On the Net: 
State government: http://www.gov.state.mo.us National Governors' Association: 
http://www.nga.org/subtocnga.htm Campaigns: http://www.johnashcroft.com 
and http://www.carnahan2000.com