Hardly had the bomb debris settled on the USS Cole when the questions 
arose: Will the United States retaliate for an apparent terrorist 
attack that killed 17 Americans? If so, when and how? Before that 
can be known, another question must be answered: Who did it? At this 
point, no one seems to know. At a memorial service Wednesday at Norfolk 
Naval Station, Va., President Clinton said of the perpetrators: ``You 
will not find a safe harbor. We will find you and justice will prevail.'' 
There has been no credible claim of responsibility for the ship attack. 
The government of Yemen, whose port of Aden was the scene of the attack, 
said Tuesday its investigators found bomb-making equipment in a house 
near the port and believe two men who spent several days there are 
linked to the bombing. Security officials said the men, who disappeared, 
were non-Yemeni Arabs, possibly Saudis. The Clinton administration 
has not concluded definitively that the bombing was the work of terrorists, 
nor has it said explicitly that it will retaliate militarily. Defense 
Secretary William Cohen said the perpetrators would be found. ``To 
those who organized and orchestrated this barbarous act, you are on 
notice that our search for you will be relentless, that America will 
not rest until we find you and the long arm of justice reaches out, 
however long, however far, and makes you pay for this crime,'' Cohen 
said at the memorial service. Although many people expect U.S. military 
retaliation, the record shows that in many cases of international 
terrorism the Clinton administration has sought legal prosecution, 
not military retaliation. ``Military retaliation is very difficult 
to do, especially if you can't retaliate against a state,'' said Vincent 
Cannistraro, a retired CIA officer and counterterrorism expert. ``It 
is not necessarily a good counterterrorism tool.'' In the aftermath 
of the 1988 terrorist bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, 
Scotland, the United Nations, and the United States independently, 
imposed economic sanctions. Three years of investigative work led 
to the indictment of two Libyan intelligence agents, who are now on 
trial in the Netherlands. But there was no U.S. military response. 
A notable exception was Clinton's decision in August 1998 to launch 
cruise missiles at a suspected chemical weapons factory in Sudan and 
against terrorist training camps in Afghanistan affiliated with Osama 
bin Laden, the well-financed Saudi exile whose organization, al Qaida, 
the United States calls a global terrorist network. Washington accused 
bin Laden of masterminding the Aug. 7 bombings of U.S. embassies in 
Kenya and Tanzania which killed 224 people, including 12 Americans. 
The August 1998 retaliation failed to hit bin Laden and created a 
lot of headaches for the White House. For example, the owner of the 
Sudan pharmaceutical plant destroyed in the attack is suing the U.S. 
government for $50 million on grounds that his factory was targeted 
on false charges of having terrorist links. In a statement published 
Tuesday in a Pakistani newspaper, bin Laden cautioned the United States 
not to attack him in Afghanistan. ``The dream to kill me will never 
be completed,'' bin Laden was quoted as saying. ``I am not afraid 
of the American threats against me. As long as I am alive there will 
be no rest for the enemies of Islam. I will continue my mission against 
them.'' Cannistraro said the attack on the USS Cole has the earmarks 
of an operation by bin Laden's organization, but he questions whether 
investigators will find enough evidence. The boat believed to have 
detonated the bomb is said to have been shredded into confetti-sized 
pieces, and other physical evidence may be hard to find. The attack 
on the Cole was the deadliest against a U.S. military target since 
a truck bomb ripped through a U.S. Air Force housing complex in Saudi 
Arabia, killing 19 troops. After that attack, Clinton said, ``I'll 
do everything in my power to discover who's responsible, to pursue 
them and to punish them.'' There has been no U.S. military retaliation 
for that attack, but Cohen says there has been accountability. He 
said Saudi Arabia convicted five people in the case and they are awaiting 
sentencing. ``So there has been accountability for those five,'' Cohen 
said. ``We will continue to search for others.''