In Yugoslavia today Serbian authorities and protestors drew the battle 
line to more firmly than at any other time since September 24th. That's 
when Yugoslavs voted for President, favoring the opposition candidate 
Vojislav Kostunica over the incumbent Slobodan Milosevic. President 
Milosevic, claiming that Kostunica fell short of 50 percent, insists 
that a runoff round of voting will be held this Sunday. The opposition 
maintains that Kostunica won outright and he staged demonstrations 
and strikes to force Milosevic from office. Today the government vowed 
to act firmly to end the strikes but the protestors are not backing 
down, and neither is the man they want as Yugoslavia's next President. 
The West knows little about Kostunica than what he would do as President. 
So for some insight we turn now to Wisnep Pessage who is the director 
of the center for Anti-War action in Belgrade. She has worked closely 
with Kostunica in the opposition for some 20 years now. Wisnep Pessage, 
this man is a Serb nationalist but in anti-Communist and a longtime 
foe of Milosevic. How would the Federal Republic of Yugaslavia be 
different under Kostunica than it is under Milosevic? I think that 
Kostunica would change our situation in a real popular way because 
during his years we didn't have any rule of law. We had, let's say, 
on the edge of complete and open dictatorship. We live in a country 
where we have this Mafia's style, where you have people making money 
overnight and what is for sure about Kostunica that I can say is that 
he is not right for anything and that the people liked him because 
he is honest. He is going to respect the Parliament that will change 
our constitution that everybody is participating in that. So he would 
reconstruct his first, you know, the basics of democracy. So how would 
he, for instance, handle the situation in Kosovo? And how would he 
have handled it differently than Milosevic? First of all, you know, 
he would use more legal means, you know, to resolve the problem. I 
think that he should use, you know, negotiations and probably would 
negotiate some kind of autonomy. If, for example, now he is in his 
campaign he was advocating the solution with the problem with Montenegro 
that we have referendum in Serbia and also in Montenegro, and then 
also that we have negotiation about the constitution and the possession 
of Balk Republic in the Federation. Let's look outward now. I mean 
this is the man that the West is counting on working with. He is still, 
as we said, very much an unknown quantity. What should international 
governments know about him? What should Washington know about him? 
One of his primary goals is to have good relationship with Western 
Europe, to have good relationship with United States. And at the beginning 
he was stressing more Europe than United States, because there is 
more odium against, you know, America. But since the time was passing 
by, he was putting that together, Europe and United States, and actually 
I don't think that he is having to anything against to have very good 
relationship with United States, and America, and also Russia. Can 
you see a reconciliation, for instance, with some of Serbia's enemies? 
Would he visit, for instance, Croatia? Well, I am sure that he would. 
You know, for President Milosevic congratulated him and Kostunica 
is a very, how to say, elegant and let's say nobleman. I don't think 
that he would behave rudely and I am sure that he would have a good 
relationship with our neighbors and that's what we need. One of the 
stated conditions of the West for lifting the sanctions, full lifting 
of the sanctions in Yugoslavia, is this Slobodan Milosevic be handed 
over to The Hague. Would Kostunica turn over Milosevic to The Hague 
war-crimes tribunal? Well, up to now he refused to do that. He said 
that he would not do that. Then he softened this position and then 
he said that this kind of thing is not his duty so some other people 
should be deciding about that. I think that this a premature question 
for Kostunica because the trouble is that he is not President yet. 
And I would suggest, you know, that we don't push such questions before 
he really is the President. Wisnip Pessage, opposition campaigner 
and longtime colleague to Vojislav of Kostunica speaking to us from 
Belgrade. Nice to speak with you. Thank you very much. Thank you very 
much too.