The Voice of America presents differing points of view on a wide variety 
of issues. Next, an editorial expressing the policies of the United 
States government. On October 12th the USS Cole was the target of 
a terrorist bomb in Yemen. 17 US sailors are reported dead and more 
than three dozen were injured. " We will find out who was responsible 
and hold them accountable," said President Bill Clinton. If their 
intention was to deter us from our mission of promoting peace and 
security in the Middle East, he added, they will fail utterly. The 
Cole, a guided missile destroyer was preparing to refuel at the Yemeni 
port of Aden, when a small boat believed to have been manned by terrorists 
pulled alongside the ship and exploded. The US is conducting an intensive 
investigation into the attack. In recent years, the US has spared 
no effort to track down terrorists to the far corners of the world 
and bring them to justice. This includes those responsible for the 
savage 1993 World Trade Center bombing and the man who murdered two 
people that same year in an attack outside the head quarters of the 
Central Intelligence Agency near Washington DC. In June 1998, the 
US arrested Mohammed Rashid for the 1982 bombing of a Pan-American 
airline flight from Tokyo to Honolulu that killed one passenger and 
wounded 15 others. Of the 17 Al Qaeda terrorists responsible for the 
1998 bombings of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, in which 
more than 200 men, women and children were killed and thousands were 
wounded, nine have been apprehended. The US will not rest until the 
eight remaining fugitive terrorists including Osama Bin Laden have 
been brought to account. The US has been a major target of international 
terrorists for many years. Despite their threats and violence, US 
policy remains unchanged. US will make no concessions to terrorists. 
US will bring to justice those who attack its citizens and interests. 
US will hold state sponsors of terrorism fully accountable. The price 
of opposing international terrorism is high, but the US will continue 
to pay it. Not to do so would be both immoral and dangerous.