Crew members of the USS Cole worked to restore their damaged warship 
and searched for the bodies of those still missing Wednesday, even 
as Americans back home paid tribute at a memorial service to 17 sailors 
who died in the explosion. U.S. and Yemeni authorities are investigating 
the apparent suicide bombing. A 12-year-old Yemeni boy provided a 
lead in the investigation, Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh said 
Wednesday in a television interview. At the tearful service in Norfolk, 
Va., President Clinton mourned the dead and sternly warned those who 
organized the Oct. 12 attack. ``You will not find a safe harbor, for 
we will find you and justice will prevail,'' he said. Aboard the Cole, 
sailors who held a small memorial on Sunday continued bailing water 
from the crippled vessel and searching for the bodies of four crew 
members still missing. ``They are trying to finish their job, trying 
to find the remains,'' said Lt. Terrence Dudley, a spokesman for the 
U.S. 5th Fleet. Eight bodies pulled from the wreckage on Tuesday were 
flown to the United States, Navy officials said. Five recovered earlier 
have already been returned for burial. Most of the 39 sailors injured 
in the blast have returned to the United States, though two were being 
treated at a U.S. military hospital in Germany. The investigation 
is focused on an Aden neighborhood surrounding an apartment where 
police found bomb-making equipment on Monday. Neighbors said police 
had questioned the landlord and a real estate agent who found the 
apartment for two men who have been missing since the attack. Yemeni 
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, identified the possible 
suspects only as non-Yemeni Arabs. A Yemeni boy told authorities that 
a bearded man wearing glasses gave him small change and told him to 
watch his car near the port on the day of the bombing, Saleh said 
Wednesday, on the popular Arab satellite news station Al-Jazeera. 
According to the child, the man then took to the sea in a rubber boat 
he had carried atop the car, and did not return, Saleh said. Yemeni 
police were apparently able to trace the man back to the apartment. 
Officials believe a small rubber boat packed with explosives was maneuvered 
next to the Cole by two suicide bombers and then detonated. Moments 
before the blast, two men were seen standing on the deck of a small 
vessel alongside the destroyer, U.S. authorities said. A 40-by-40-foot 
hole was blown into the Cole's hull and the small boat disintegrated 
into ``confetti size'' pieces. The independent Yemeni newspaper Al 
Ayyam reported Wednesday that the landlord said he rented the apartment 
for a month to at least one non-Yemeni Arab with an unspecified Gulf 
accent. Al Ayyam said police determined one tenant gave the landlord 
forged identification. The paper said the tenants parked a fiberglass 
boat near the apartment yard. The boat was now missing. Yemeni officials 
would give no further information on the explosives material found 
in the apartment. They said the missing men arrived in Yemen four 
days before the attack. Saleh defended Yemen's role in the investigation, 
bristling at an interviewer's suggestion that it was dominated by 
Americans. He also said Yemen would not allow any of its citizens 
to be interrogated by U.S. investigators, as a matter of ``sovereignty.'' 
A senior U.S. administration official said U.S. FBI director Louis 
Freeh believes the government of Yemen ``is now cooperating fully 
and genuinely'' in the investigation. Freeh told the White House he 
was heading for Yemen as part of the investigation. The bombing, for 
which no one has claimed responsibility, may be the deadliest terrorist 
attack on the U.S. military since the 1996 bombing of an Air Force 
barracks in Saudi Arabia that killed 19.