The Cold War may be over but the bombing of the USS Cole was a clear 
signal the United States should place greater value on its military, 
Dick Cheney said Wednesday. ``It's still a dangerous world out there,'' 
the Republican vice presidential candidate told several hundred people 
before observing a moment of silence for the bombing victims. His 
speech came the same day a ceremony was held in Norfolk, Va., where 
the USS Cole is based, in memory of the 17 sailors killed aboard the 
Navy destroyer in Yemen last week. Cheney, who was defense secretary 
during the Gulf War, spoke to a mix of students and older voters at 
St. Vincent College, a Roman Catholic school near Pittsburgh. He said 
voters must be aware that, by picking a president, they're also choosing 
a new commander in chief. ``There's no more important constitutional 
duty,'' he said. ``It's the power of life or death, if you will, over 
men and women in uniform.'' He said the Democratic ticket of Vice 
President Al Gore and Joseph Lieberman believes it is inappropriate 
to discuss the state of the armed forces during the campaign. ``There's 
a school of thought that we don't need robust forces out there because 
the bad guys have been vanquished. But the key to maintaining peace 
is that we may not need to be as big as we were in the Cold War, but 
we need to be up to the task,'' he said. Speaking about his signature 
issue, military readiness, Cheney again argued that the military has 
suffered under eight years of President Clinton and Gore. ``While 
it may be the best in the world, the trend is in the wrong direction,'' 
he said. Cheney said rebuilding fleets will take time, but poor morale 
can be improved almost immediately with incentives to re-enlist, better 
equipment and _ a new commander in chief. He echoed later themes at 
a later rally in nearby Montoursville. ``He just did such a great 
job as secretary of defense,'' said Harry Nagel, a 75-year-old retired 
sales manager, one of several hundred Bush-Cheney supporters who attended 
the rally inside a hangar at Williamsport Regional Airport. ``He doesn't 
need this job, he's doing it out if a sense of duty.'' Cheney also 
planned to attend an evening fund-raiser in Whippany, N.J.