The son of Gov. Mel Carnahan, piloting his father's ill-fated plane, 
told air traffic controllers the craft was malfunctioning minutes 
before it crashed, investigators said Wednesday. Carnahan, 66, died 
when the Cessna 335 crashed Monday night in a hilly area south of 
St. Louis. Also killed were his son Roger, 44, and his chief aide, 
Chris Sifford, 37. The cause has not been determined. Details of communication 
between Roger Carnahan and the control tower at Lambert Airport in 
St. Louis were released Wednesday by the National Transportation Safety 
Board. The twin-engine six-seater took off just before 7 p.m. from 
Parks Airport in Cahokia, Ill., near St. Louis, heading for a fund-raiser 
in New Madrid through rainy, foggy conditions. At 7:20 p.m., Roger 
Carnahan said he was having trouble with the artificial horizon, which 
is used to judge whether the plane is tilting. Two minutes later, 
he sought permission to turn to the west toward an airport in Jefferson 
City. Six minutes later, at 7:28 p.m., Roger Carnahan told controllers 
he was still having trouble and was trying to switch to visual flight 
rules, which means he was trying to find a path clear enough to fly 
by sight. Air traffic control told him ``to just keep heading west'' 
to avoid fog and rain. The pilot said he was heading west, and then 
the tower lost radar contact with the plane at 7:33. NTSB investigators 
have found a football-sized piece of the plane's engine more than 
a quarter-mile away from most of the plane's wreckage, something agency 
spokeswoman Carol Carmody called unusual. The investigation could 
take months. The aircraft had a clean track record, as did Roger Carnahan, 
an amateur pilot with more than 1,600 hours of flying experience. 
Earlier Wednesday, Lt. Gov. Roger Wilson officially took over leadership 
of the state after a medical examiner identified the remains of Mel 
Carnahan and Sifford. Wilson, like Carnahan, is a Democrat. He was 
sworn in as Missouri's 52nd governor at a brief ceremony after midnight 
attended by his family, Carnahan's staff and state lawmakers. He will 
serve out the rest of Carnahan's term, which ends Jan. 8. ``The people 
of Missouri have my pledge that I will do everything I can ... to 
make Missouri as productive as possible and a great place to live,'' 
said Wilson, who became lieutenant governor in 1992 and was re-elected 
in 1996. Mel Carnahan had been battling Republican Sen. John Ashcroft 
in one of the nation's tightest Senate races. Carnahan's name will 
stay on the Nov. 7 ballot because the deadline to change it has passed. 
If Carnahan receives the most votes, Wilson can appoint a replacement 
to serve until the next general election, in November 2002. Carnahan's 
casket will lie in state at the Governor's Mansion on Thursday for 
public visitation. President Clinton is expected to attend a memorial 
service Friday outside the Capitol in Jefferson City. ___ On the Net: 
State government: http://www.gov.state.mo.us National Governors' Association: 
http://www.nga.org/subtocnga.htm Campaigns: http://www.johnashcroft.com 
and http://www.carnahan2000.com