A retired Navy admiral and a retired Army general will head an independent 
investigation of security on the USS Cole at the time the ship was 
hit by an apparent terrorist attack in the Yemeni port of Aden. The 
Pentagon planned to announce on Thursday that Defense Secretary William 
Cohen had requested the probe be led by Adm. Harold W. Gehman, who 
retired this summer as commander in chief of U.S. Joint Forces Command, 
and Gen. William Crouch, who retired in 1999 as Army deputy chief 
of staff, a senior defense official said Wednesday, speaking on condition 
of anonymity. Crouch also is a former commander of U.S. Army Europe 
and chief of NATO's Allied Land Forces Central Europe. In that capacity 
he commanded the U.S.-led NATO peacekeepers in Bosnia in 1996-97, 
a mission that placed a high priority on troop security, or ``force 
protection measures,'' in military parlance. Gehman had extensive 
at-sea experience during his career, including tours in Vietnam and 
as commander of a destroyer. He later served as vice chief of naval 
operations, the No. 2 post in the Navy. The investigation will examine 
the circumstances at the time of the Oct. 12 bombing in Aden, Yemen, 
and assess ways in which standard security precautions during visits 
to foreign ports can be improved. The probe will be independent of 
the FBI's ongoing investigation of who carried out the attack. U.S. 
officials believe that a small boat sidled up to the Cole while it 
was preparing to refuel in the middle of Aden's harbor and detonated 
a bomb powerful enough to rip a hole 40 feet high and 40 feet wide 
in the Cole's hull. Seventeen sailors were killed and more than 30 
were injured. The impact wrenched open hatches and buckled parts of 
the deck on the 4-year-old destroyer, whose modern construction may 
have helped it say afloat. The Cole will have to be moved from Aden 
for major repairs by a vessel known as a heavy lift ship, which is 
like a floating dry dock capable of carrying ships of up to 30,000 
tons. The unloaded Cole is 8,300 tons. The Navy, meanwhile, said the 
bodies of two more American sailors were recovered Wednesday from 
the Cole, and the search was to resume Thursday for the last four 
missing bodies believed still aboard. Over the weekend, the Navy sent 
a 22-member team of specialists with 10 tons of equipment to cut through 
the twisted steel inside the ship and find the sailors who were listed 
as missing. Navy officials said they knew approximately where the 
bodies were but could not reach them because of the extensive damage. 
Lt. Cmdr. Cate Mueller, a Navy spokeswoman, said the two additional 
remains _ along with six bodies recovered on Tuesday _ were due to 
arrive at Dover Air Force Base, Del., on Thursday. A port-side memorial 
service at Aden, the scene of the attack last Thursday, was held before 
the eight remains were taken aboard a plane for the flight home, Mueller 
said. The Pentagon released the names of two of the six bodies recovered 
on Tuesday. They are Ronald Scott Owens, 24, of Vero Beach, Fla., 
and Kevin Shawn Rux, 30, of Portland, N.D. The other four sets of 
remains recovered Tuesday as well as the two recovered Wednesday had 
not yet been identified. Five bodies were recovered last week and 
were flown back to the United States. The presumed final death count 
of 17 makes this the worst terrorist attack on the American military 
since a truck bomb ripped through a U.S. Air Force housing complex 
near Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, in June 1996, killing 19 troops.