thanks for looking in. here's the top story -- all the bodies of the 
17 crew members killed in the attack on the "uss cole" have been recovered 
as congress joins in the investigation into the blast. eight of the 
bodies should arrive tomorrow at dover air force base in delaware. 
pentagon officials say the last four sets of remains were recovered 
today and will follow in a second plane. the victims were found over 
the last three days by search teams cutting through the damaged interior 
of the ship. the first five bodies recovered were flown home last 
weekend. investigators in yemen say they're making progress in the 
hunt for whoever was behind the attack on the "cole." walter rodgers 
updates the developments in the case. forensic efforts paddle a rubber 
dinghy through the blast hole and float inside the crippled destroyer 
"uss cole." officials say the investigation is making good progress, 
though it will take time to develop significant evidence to say who 
launched the attack on the u.s. warship. those on board say the scene 
inside is nothing short of catastrophic. the american fbi directer 
louis freeh described the blast scene. moved decks literally around. 
so it is a tangled mass of metal and wire. yemeni officials and the 
fbi director say there's been considerable progress in developing 
evidence. a senior u.s. official confirmed several locations have 
been found where the bombers operated from and they say several people 
were involved. yemen's president is pointing a finger in the direction 
of afghanistan. they are elements from al-jihad returning from afghanistan. 
president saleh says he thinks they are part of a group returning 
from afghanistan and he said yemen has identified a number of eyewitnesss. 
the americans have used the name osama bin laden. do you believe he's 
involved? "maybe," he replayed. it is much too early in the case to 
come to that conclusion. we have some theories as you almost have 
to have when you begin an investigation of this kind. off the coast 
of yemen, a marine carrier stands by, providing support and protection 
during the salvage operation. the attack on the destroyer testifies 
to afundamental change in the nature of terrorism. officials here 
say perpetrators are far less likely to claim responsibility. rather, 
they say, the motivation of the case may simply have been to kill 
large numbers of americans. walter rodgers, cnn, aden, yemen. u.s. 
senators are asking why the "cole" was being refueled at the port 
in yemen in the first place. retired general anthony zinni added yemen 
to the list of refueling spots when he served as the u.s. regional 
commander for the middle east. he told the senate armed services committee 
today it was a strategic decision. he says it had nothing to do with 
improving relations with yemen.