Investigators widened their probe into the bombing of the USS Cole 
to Saudi Arabia and to a far eastern Yemeni province known for its 
outlaw tribes, Yemeni officials said Thursday as the FBI director 
arrived and toured the warship. FBI director Louis Freeh held talks 
with Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh and later told a news conference 
that his agency is supporting Yemen's investigation in a ``junior'' 
role and is in the country by invitation. He complimented Yemeni authorities' 
police work in the case. The devastation has slowed recovery of the 
dead. A 14th body was pulled from the wreckage Thursday, U.S. officials 
said. The search for the last three missing and presumed dead continued. 
Freeh said he toured the U.S. warship, which was attacked as it arrived 
to refuel Oct. 12, and described the crime scene as a ``tangled mess 
of metal and wire.'' The FBI director said it was far too early to 
speculate who may have sponsored or be responsible for the bombing, 
which killed 17 sailors and injured 39. ``We are looking at this with 
an open mind,'' he said. Saleh, in an interview with CNN, said ``it 
could be'' when asked if Osama Bin-Laden was behind the attack on 
the USS Cole. He also said it was possible that ``elements from Afghanistan'' 
were involved. Freeh would not commit to that possibility. He said 
determining exactly who carried out the attack ``will be governed 
by facts and forensics,'' adding that ``we are far from making even 
preliminary judgments on this.'' Yemeni security officials said Thursday 
that a search earlier this week of an Aden apartment where bomb-making 
equipment was found also yielded documents they believe originated 
in Hadhramaut, an eastern Yemeni province. A vehicle believed used 
by the attackers also contained documents traced to Hadhramaut, the 
officials said on condition of anonymity. They said investigators 
were dispatched Thursday to Hadhramaut, seeking more information to 
try to identify two men who used the Aden apartment and who have not 
been seen since the bombing. Hadhramaut, a conservative region along 
the eastern border with Oman, is home to lawless tribes that have 
kidnapped foreigners for ransom. Yemeni officials said another team 
of investigators was going to neighboring Saudi Arabia on Thursday. 
The officials provided no information on the leads that took them 
there. Many Yemenis from Hadhramaut have settled in Saudi Arabia. 
Investigators also were questioning the owner of a welding shop who 
had done welding for the suspects, security officials said without 
elaborating. The landlord of the Aden apartment and a real estate 
agent who found the apartment for the two men also have been questioned. 
Yemeni officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, identified 
the possible suspects only as non-Yemeni Arabs. A 12-year-old Yemeni 
boy told authorities that a bearded man wearing glasses gave him small 
change and told him to watch his car near the port on the day of the 
bombing, Saleh said Wednesday on the popular Arab satellite news station 
Al-Jazeera. According to the child, the man then took to the sea in 
a rubber boat he had carried atop the car, and did not return, Saleh 
said. Yemeni police were apparently able to trace the man back to 
the apartment. Officials believe a small rubber boat packed with explosives 
was maneuvered next to the Cole by two suicide bombers and then detonated. 
At a tearful service in Norfolk, Va., President Clinton mourned the 
dead and sternly warned those who organized the attack. ``You will 
not find a safe harbor, for we will find you and justice will prevail,'' 
he said Wednesday. Sailors aboard the Cole had held a small memorial 
on Sunday. On Wednesday, they continued bailing water from the crippled 
vessel and searching for the bodies of four crew members still missing. 
The apparent death toll of 17 in the bombing, for which no one has 
claimed responsibility, makes it the deadliest terrorist attack on 
the U.S. military since the 1996 bombing of an Air Force barracks 
in Saudi Arabia that killed 19. In Washington, Gen. Anthony Zinni, 
who was commander in chief of U.S. Central Command at the time the 
Pentagon contracted for refueling services in Aden in December 1998, 
took responsibility for the decision to send the ship there. ``I pass 
that buck on to nobody,'' Zinni told a Senate Armed Services Committee 
hearing. He said the Yemeni coastline is a ``sieve'' for terrorists 
but was the best option available for refueling Navy ships in the 
volatile region. There has been no claim of responsibility for the 
Cole bombing that is considered credible. Thursday, the London-based 
newspaper Al Hayat published a statement by Egyptian militant leader 
Rifai Ahmed Taha citing the Cole explosion and calling for more attacks 
on U.S. interests. ``Our soldiers, officers and sons in Egypt should 
learn a lesson from the American destroyer in Aden, since they have 
the Suez Canal before their eyes where dozens of American Jewish ships 
cross,'' said the statement attributed to Taha. Taha's al-Gamaa al-Islamiya, 
or Islamic Group, is held responsible for the 1997 massacre of Western 
tourists in Luxor, Egypt. Taha now is believed in hiding in Afghanistan 
with Osama bin Laden, a Saudi dissident of Yemeni descent. Bin Laden 
is accused in the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania 
that killed 224 people. Bin Laden recruited Yemenis, along with other 
Arabs, to fight alongside Afghans against Soviet invaders. After the 
1989 Soviet withdrawal, many radicalized, battle-hardened Yemeni veterans 
returned home. Yemeni official say they are questioning Afghan veterans 
in the Cole bombing.