The Yemeni coastline, where an apparent terrorist bombing of the USS 
Cole last week killed 17 sailors, is a ``sieve'' for terrorists, the 
former U.S. military commander in the Persian Gulf region said Thursday. 
But it was the best option available for refueling Navy ships, he 
said. Gen. Anthony Zinni, who was commander in chief of U.S. Central 
Command at the time the Pentagon contracted for refueling services 
in the Yemeni port of Aden in December 1998, took responsibility for 
the decision. ``I pass that buck on to nobody,'' he told a Senate 
Armed Services Committee hearing. Meanwhile, the search for trapped 
bodies aboard the Cole yielded one set of remains Thursday, leaving 
three still to be found. At a Washington news conference, Attorney 
General Janet Reno said the United States is doing all it can to help 
the Yemeni police in their investigation. She would not say whether 
any eventual prosecution might take place in Yemen. The United States 
apparently has no arrangements with Yemen to extradite suspects, but 
could still seek to prosecute anyone arrested for involvement in the 
bombing. Zinni, who retired earlier this year, said he and the rest 
of the American government were well aware that terrorists use Yemen 
as a transit route into Saudi Arabia. ``Their coast is a sieve,'' 
he said. Yet there were no better alternatives and Navy ships must 
refuel in that area while moving to and from the Persian Gulf, Zinni 
said. The port of Djibouti, on the Horn of Africa and just across 
the Gulf of Aden from Yemen, had been used but the refueling contract 
there was terminated in about 1997 because the facilities were unsatisfactory 
and ``the threat conditions were far worse.'' That left him with ``options 
that were not very good,'' Zinni said. The retired general told the 
committee that he personally checked on the refueling arrangements 
in a series of visits to Aden between May 1998 and May 2000. Each 
time, Zinni said, it was clear to him that the Yemeni government was 
sincere in wanting American help in controlling its coastline. Zinni 
said his chief of security also visited Aden in May 1998 to check 
on security arrangements. Zinni said Aden was one of the few ports 
in the region where U.S. intelligence had not detected specific threats 
to American interests. The threat conditions in Yemen, he said, ``were 
actually better than we had elsewhere,'' including Saudi Arabia. While 
the Senate committee began to examine the circumstances behind the 
Navy's use of Aden as a refueling stop, the Pentagon was preparing 
to move ahead with its own investigation. A retired Navy admiral, 
Harold W. Gehman, and a retired Army general, William Crouch, will 
head an independent investigation of security practices on the USS 
Cole at the time the ship was hit by an apparent terrorist attack 
Oct. 12. Meantime, the commander of the Atlantic Fleet, Adm. Robert 
Natter, said Thursday he is very confident that those responsible 
for the attack will be found, and he added that they must be punished. 
``We have got to go and attack the enemy.'' ``There has been an attack 
on U.S. sovereign territory _ that U.S. Navy warship. That's sovereign 
territory,'' Natter said on NBC's ``Today.'' ``If we are going to 
defend ourselves, we have got to go on the attack. ``You cannot continue 
to allow yourself to be attacked and attempt to defend yourself without 
at some point saying 'this is inappropriate,''' Natter said. The Pentagon 
planned to announce on Thursday that Defense Secretary William Cohen 
had requested the probe be led by Gehman, who retired this summer 
as commander in chief of U.S. Joint Forces Command, and Crouch, who 
retired in 1999 as Army deputy chief of staff, a senior defense official 
said Wednesday, speaking on condition of anonymity. Crouch also is 
a former commander of U.S. Army Europe and chief of NATO's Allied 
Land Forces Central Europe. In that capacity he commanded the U.S.-led 
NATO peacekeepers in Bosnia in 1996-97, a mission that placed a high 
priority on troop security, or ``force protection measures,'' in military 
parlance. Gehman had extensive at-sea experience during his career, 
including tours in Vietnam and as commander of a destroyer. He later 
served as vice chief of naval operations, the No. 2 post in the Navy. 
The investigation will examine the circumstances at the time of the 
bombing and assess ways in which standard security precautions during 
visits to foreign ports can be improved. Natter, the Atlantic Fleet 
commander, said: ``To my knowledge, I'm very pleased with what the 
ship was doing with respect to self-defense.'' But he declined to 
say whether he has seen evidence of a security lapse. U.S. officials 
believe that a small boat sidled up to the Cole while it was preparing 
to refuel in the middle of Aden's harbor and detonated a bomb powerful 
enough to rip a hole 40 feet high and 40 feet wide in the Cole's hull. 
Seventeen sailors were killed and more than 30 were injured. The impact 
wrenched open hatches and buckled parts of the deck on the 4-year-old 
destroyer, whose modern construction may have helped it say afloat. 
The Cole will have to be moved from Aden for major repairs by a vessel 
known as a heavy lift ship, which is like a floating dry dock capable 
of carrying ships of up to 30,000 tons. The unloaded Cole is 8,300 
tons.