A 12-year-old Yemeni boy who says a man paid him to watch his car, 
then took to sea in a small boat and never returned has provided investigators 
with a key early lead in their search for clues about what happened 
to the USS Cole. Authorities have been focusing on two men who rented 
an Aden apartment where bomb-making material was later found. The 
two have not been seen since the U.S. warship was bombed Oct. 12 as 
it arrived in Aden to refuel, killing 17 sailors and injuring 39. 
The Navy announced Thursday that it recovered the last four bodies 
of sailors killed in the blast. Thirteen bodies already had been flown 
to the United States, and the final four will be returned home soon. 
FBI director Louis Freeh, in Yemen for talks with President Ali Abdullah 
Saleh, said determining exactly who carried out the attack would be 
a challenge. The crime scene he toured Thursday was a ``tangled mess 
of metal and wire,'' he said. Officials believe two suicide bombers 
maneuvered a small boat packed with explosives next to the Cole and 
then detonated it. The witnesses being questioned include the owner 
of a welding shop who did work for the suspects, Yemeni security officials 
said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The landlord of the apartment 
and a real estate agent who found it for the men also have been questioned. 
The 12-year-old boy told authorities a bearded man wearing glasses 
gave him small change and told him to watch his car near the port 
on the day of the bombing, Saleh said Wednesday on the Arab satellite 
news station Al-Jazeera. According to the boy, the man then went to 
sea in a small boat he carried atop the car and did not return, Saleh 
said. Yemeni police apparently were able to trace the man to the Aden 
apartment. Yemeni security officials said Thursday the apartment yielded 
documents they believe originated in Hadhramaut, a region along the 
eastern border with Oman that is home to lawless tribes that have 
kidnapped foreigners for ransom. A vehicle believed to have been used 
by the attackers also contained documents traced to Hadhramaut, the 
Yemeni officials said. They said investigators were sent to the region 
Thursday. Yemeni officials said another team of investigators was 
going to neighboring Saudi Arabia on Thursday. Many Yemenis from Hadhramaut 
have settled there. There has been no claim of responsibility for 
the Cole bombing that is considered credible. Saleh, in an interview 
with CNN Thursday, said ``it could be'' when asked if Saudi dissident 
Osama bin Laden _ whom the United States accuses of masterminding 
the 1998 bombings of its embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 
224 people _ was behind the attack on the USS Cole. Freeh said it 
was far too early to speculate. A Taliban official in Afghanistan 
said Arab militants who met with bin Laden in late September left 
the country just four days before the attack on the Cole. The official, 
who is close to the security apparatus of the Taliban religious militia 
that controls nearly all of Afghanistan, asked not to be identified 
for his own safety. He said bin Laden _ who lives in exile in Afghanistan 
_ met with members of the Palestinian Hamas movement and the Egyptian 
Jihad. He gave military code names for the participants, but it wasn't 
possible to determine their identities. A second meeting involving 
10 Arabs who arrived via Moscow, held just after the bombing, discussed 
the possibility of organizing attacks on U.S. embassies around the 
world, particularly in the Middle East, the official said. It was 
impossible to independently confirm the meetings took place or who 
might have participated. On Thursday, the London-based newspaper Al 
Hayat published a statement by Egyptian militant leader Rifai Ahmed 
Taha citing the Cole explosion and calling for more attacks on U.S. 
interests. Taha's al-Gamaa al-Islamiya, or Islamic Group, is blamed 
for a 1997 massacre of Western tourists in Luxor, Egypt. Taha now 
is believed to be in hiding in Afghanistan with bin Laden. Bin Laden 
recruited Yemenis and other Arabs to fight Soviet troops in Afghanistan 
in the 1980s. After the 1989 Soviet withdrawal, many battle-hardened 
Yemenis returned home. Yemeni officials say they are questioning Afghan 
veterans. Retired U.S. Gen. Anthony Zinni, the military commander 
in the region when the Pentagon contracted for refueling services 
at Aden in 1998, told a Senate committee hearing Thursday that he 
knew terrorists used Yemen as a transit route into Saudi Arabia but 
that there were no better alternatives. Navy ships had to refuel in 
the area while moving to and from the Persian Gulf, he said. The Aden 
neighborhood that is home to the apartment at the center of the investigation 
is known as Buraika and overlooks a beautiful bay. Senior Yemeni government 
officials and military officers live there. One neighbor pointed out 
the apartment, on the first floor of a small white house with an unfinished 
second story. Five police officers stood outside, behind a low wall 
around the front yard. Seif Salim al Murousi, who lives nearby, said 
he remembered only that one tenant was bearded and he had occasionally 
seen them wearing traditional Yemeni dress, a brightly colored wrap 
similar to a sarong.