Two months ago, the Kursk, a Russian nuclear submarine went down in 
the Barents sea during military exercises. All 118 sailors died. American 
officials say the Kursk may have sunk after a torpedo misfire but 
Moscow authorities are still investigating. Many Russian people are 
skeptical about the inquiry and about the wisdom of trying to recover 
the remains of the seamen, an operation said to begin in about 2 weeks. 
The World's Nenad Chebeck reports from Moscow. The tragedy of the 
Kursk submarine has disappeared from the front pages but is anything 
but forgotten in Russia. Last month, in accordance with Russian orthodox 
tradition, a remembrance class was held 40 days after the death of 
118 seamen aboard the Kursk. All over the country bearded priests 
spread out a roll call of the crewmembers. But even the clouds of 
incense could not hide the two main controversies following the accident 
- what caused it and what to do with the submarine and the bodies 
of the crew. President Vladimir Putin promised the families that the 
bodies will be recovered and Sir Gay Evanell, the Head of the powerful 
Security Council says the promise still stands. We are going to see 
through this unique operation. No one has ever done anything like 
it before. And we do realize that it is very risky, both when it comes 
to physical dangers for the divers, and to the psychological stress 
depending on what we find there. But not everyone thinks recovering 
the bodies is a good idea. Naval captain Biltera Pedro says it's against 
tradition that sailors have respected for centuries and could also 
cause great grief. He says, "Just imagine the tragedy of those families 
when some bodies are retrieved and others aren't." Russia had a similar 
case way back in 1970s says Pedro, when just one body was recovered. 
The Fleet Commander then decided to have even that one body handed 
back to the sea where the submarine went down says Pedro. And it's 
not just about the tradition in the past, but the future as well argues 
Alexe Budnev from the Veterans Club of the Russian Fleet. The cost 
of this operation will be huge. I think it would be much better to 
invest the sum in improving the rescue capabilities of the Russian 
fleet, so we can save lives in the future. And while this controversy 
going on, so does the government investigation to the causes of the 
disaster. Former submarine captain Ureg Gladkovich says that he is 
confident the government commission will do a good job. The authorities 
need to know the truth in order to make whatever changes are necessary 
for the future safety of the submarine fleet says Gladkovich. But 
whether those findings will ever reach the public is another matter. 
Just look back at the way they fudged and lied their way through the 
rescue operation. They never gave us the full truth. That gives us 
reason to doubt their good intentions to tell us the truth this time. 
It all depends on the good will of the military and the government. 
Unfortunately, Russia doesn't have a political mechanism that would 
make such an investigation open to the public. Military affairs analysts 
with the well-respected Russian news magazine Itogi, Alexander Gulls, 
says the Commission's work is just a smoke screen. He says the cause 
of the Kursk tragedy is known to those in charge. Our Navy Commanders 
they know pretty well and all that's going on now points that these 
people want to hide the real thing that had had happened onboard of 
Kursk. But what did cause the Kursk tragedy? There are three main 
theories. Firstly, that a torpedo missile misfired while still in 
the tube causing a massive explosion in the armory. Secondly, that 
the sub hit a mine leftover from World War II. And thirdly, a collision 
with another vessel. Former captain Ureg Gladkovich says that his 
experience leads into believing another theory. I believe that the 
Captain over the Kursk took a sudden and drastic maneuver to avoid 
colliding with another vessel. The waters were shallow for such a 
huge submarine and the sub maneuver led to the front part of the sub 
hitting the seabed with great speed. The shear force led to the explosion 
of the armaments that are stored in the front compartment. The whole 
front part of the submarine was probably flooded within seconds killing 
most of the crew says Gladkovich. The ones in the back compartments 
could have survived for a while, he says, but not more than a few 
hours, as the sea continued to flood the whole boat after it cracked 
up. But while the theory sounds very closable, there is no evidence 
as yet to make it anything more than educated guess work According 
to military analyst, Alexander Gulls, that is the way things will 
remain. The huge money that were promised to families avail, receive 
ten times more than families of soldiers who were killed in Chechnya. 
For me, it's rather cynical attempt to shut them up. With so many 
secrets linked to the Kursk, Russia's most advanced nuclear submarine, 
the full truth may never emerge, even if the bodies and the boat eventually 
do. For The World this is Nenad Sebek in Moscow.