This is The World, I am Lisa Mullins. The Yemeni coastline is a sear 
for terrorists, but it was the best option available for refueling 
ships. That's what General Anthony Zinni told the Senate Arms Services 
Committee hearing today. Zinny was in charge of the US Central Command 
at the time of the Pentagon contracted for refueling services in the 
Yemeni port of Aden in December of 1998. Today he took full responsibility 
for that decision saying I pass that buck on to nobody. In Yemen officials 
say they now have a description of one of the suicide bombers and 
that mounting evidence suggests that the plot to bomb the USS Cole 
may have originated in a remote corner of Yemen. The World's Katy 
Clark has the latest on the investigation. Yemeni security officials 
today said that during a search earlier this week of an Aden apartment 
that turned out bomb making equipment, investigators also found documents 
they believe originated in the eastern Yemeni province of Hydra Mount. 
The region is home to several tribal groups that have been known to 
kidnap foreigners for ransom. Security officials also linked documents 
found in the vehicle believed to be used by the attackers to the region. 
Today Yemeni investigators went to the province of Hydra Mount hoping 
to identify the two men who used the apartment. They haven't been 
seen since the bombing a week ago. FBI director, Louis Freeh visited 
Yemen today to view the investigation first hand. After meeting with 
Yemen's President Free told a news conference that the FBI's role 
there is strictly supports. The investigation is being run by the 
Yemeni police and security authorities. We are the junior partner. 
We are very pleased with the progress of the investigation. In fact 
I complimented the President for the very good investigative work 
they have done, particularly in finding several locations which we 
feel may be relevant to the case. The FBI director also toured the 
wreckage of the USS Cole and described it as a tangled mass of metal 
and wire. Free said that the situation on board is a recovery mission 
as much as it is a crime scene. When asked who he suspected was behind 
the attack, Free cautioned it's still too soon to draw conclusions. 
We don't want to be speculating. What we want to be doing now is investigating 
and that's what we do, though we do it best if we do it based on the 
facts. Facts, which appear to be growing clearer with each day. Speaking 
on Arabic Satellite Television yesterday President Ali Abdullah Saleh 
said investigators have found a workshop they believe was used to 
build the engine for the boat that transported the explosives out 
to the Cole. They have also interviewed eye witnesses and put together 
a composite sketch of one of the suicide bombers. The Yemeni President 
said he has a beard and wears glasses but we don't know the description 
of the other person. The question here is, are they Yemeni nationals? 
The documents show they are from Hydra Mount. President Sallah described 
the attack as an octopus of an operation and said it was clear it 
had been carefully planned. Closer to home, the Senate Arms Services 
Community today began an examination of the policy that allowed the 
Cole to dock in Yemen. The Pentagon will be staging its own independent 
investigation into circumstances surrounding the bombing and today 
named retired navy Admiral Harold Geeman and retired Army General 
William Crouch to lead that probe. For the World I am Katy Clark.