The inquiry into the attack on the destroyer Cole has led investigators 
to a mountainous region on the eastern border with Saudi Arabia that 
has been a stronghold of Islamic groups returning from the war against 
Soviet forces in Afghanistan, American and Yemeni officials said on 
Thursday. As the investigation gathered pace on Thursday, the Navy 
announced it had recovered the bodies of the last four sailors listed 
as missing after the suicide bombing attack, which occurred last Thursday 
and killed 17 sailors and wounded 39 others. Divers with metal-cutters 
found the bodies deep inside the ship, an area so devastated that 
Louis J. Freeh, the director of the FBI, described the scene after 
a visit as ``absolutely catastrophic damage.'' Yemeni officials also 
said they had searched a house near the harbor that they have tentatively 
identified as the place where the bomb was assembled. The search yielded 
at least one document that originated in Hadhramaut, a region about 
500 miles northeast of Aden along the border with Saudi Arabia. The 
area is the ancestral home of the family of Osama bin Laden, the exiled 
Saudi financier who is the FBI's most-wanted terrorist suspect because, 
the bureau says, he directed the bombing of the American embassies 
in East Africa in 1998. Although the document, a driver's license, 
was made out to a false name, the Yemeni officials said, they had 
begun intensive inquiries in the region. But they did not say the 
evidence had led them to conclude that bin Laden, who is in hiding 
in Afghanistan, is a suspect. Freeh and other American officials said 
it was still too early to speculate about who might have ordered or 
carried out the attack, or on possible motives. Freeh's one-day visit 
here, to consult with investigators and with President Ali Abdullah 
Saleh, reflected the importance attached by Washington to leads developed 
by the Yemenis. Yemeni officials have said a 12-year-old boy provided 
a crucial lead when he told the police that he had been approached 
by a bearded Arab man with glasses who approached him as he played 
beside the bay last Thursday morning, about the time the Cole entered 
the harbor. The boy's account, the Yemenis said, was that the stranger 
gave him a few coins to watch a car and boat trailer. Then the man 
unloaded the boat, launched it and disappeared, the boy said. Yemeni 
officials said the car was registered to a woman from Somalia, across 
the Gulf of Aden from Yemen. At a news conference, Freeh praised the 
``fine investigative work'' by the Yemenis in identifying two safe 
houses a few miles across the bay from where the Cole was attacked, 
as well as the car, the trailer and the documents linking two men 
who lived at one house to Hadhramaut. The Yemenis displayed ``very, 
very good police work,'' he added. Saleh said in a television interview 
Wednesday that one of the houses had been used to prepare what he 
and Freeh, separately, described as ``the explosive device.'' American 
officials said the phrase would cover a large bomb of about a third 
of a ton of TNT, the kind American investigators originally believed 
to have been used in the attack, as well as something more sophisticated, 
like a ``shaped charge'' _ a torpedo or a missile. In the week since 
the attack, more detailed accounts have described much greater damage 
to the destroyer than earlier Navy reports suggested. Freeh appeared 
shocked by the damage he saw when a Navy launch took him up to the 
gaping hole on the Cole, which Navy officials describe as being wide 
enough for two city buses to pass through abreast. Witnesses _ Yemenis 
on the waterfront and sailors abroad the Cole _ have said a small 
boat moving among other craft servicing the Cole rammed the ship's 
port side and exploded in a ball of flame. Freeh said photographs 
did not adequately convey the destruction. The decks separating mess 
halls and engineering spaces, where most of the sailors died, collapsed 
in the blast, leaving ``a tangled mess of metal and wire,'' he said. 
Saleh gave a similar account. The Yemeni leader, a former army general, 
said his initial insistence that the explosion must have resulted 
from an accident aboard the Cole was based on having gone out to look 
closely at the Cole and wondering ``how a small boat that is about 
the size of a desk could possibly cause this much damage.'' The president 
said he had been told by ``American technicians'' that the damage 
from the explosion had reached within seven feet of the ship's arsenal, 
where cruise missiles were stored.