American warships visited the Yemeni port of Aden two dozen times 
even though there had been no security reviews of local harbor workers 
and Yemen's coast was known to be susceptible to infiltration by terrorists, 
defense and administration officials said Thursday. Intelligence analysts 
with the U.S. Central Command did review overall security for ships 
visiting Yemen, but neither the American Embassy nor the Pentagon's 
Defense Logistics Agency required or conducted extensive vetting of 
Yemeni port workers, the officials said. Investigators in Yemen have 
not yet determined how a small harbor boat packed with explosives 
managed to cripple the destroyer Cole a week ago, but officials in 
Washington are questioning whether security lapses may have given 
the attackers an opportunity to strike. What, if any, lapses occurred 
will be the focus of an independent investigation that the Pentagon 
announced Thursday would be led by two former commanders, Adm. Harold 
W. Gehman and Gen. William Crouch. The apparent lack of scrutiny of 
port workers and the overall assessment of the port's safety will 
be among the questions they investigate, the officials said. The Cole 
entered Aden operating under standard procedures based on the level 
of threat in that port, and would have done the same in any port in 
the world where the threat was deemed comparable. ``It would not be 
different from any other port where the threat condition was the same, 
depending on where they were tying up,'' a senior military official 
said Thursday. Since the Cole's actions were standard, any findings 
of security shortcomings could lead to sweeping changes for American 
ships visiting ports around the world, not just Aden. ``I want to 
stress that we've said many times we will never have a perfect defense 
against terrorism,'' said the Pentagon's spokesman, Kenneth H. Bacon. 
``But we need to make our defenses as good as they can be. And this 
panel is designed to help do that.'' The decision to use Aden as a 
refueling stop for American warships headed for the Persian Gulf was 
the subject of an extensive and at times charged debate at a hearing 
of the Senate's Armed Services Committee Thursday. Gen. Anthony C. 
Zinni, who retired as commander of American forces in the region in 
August, took responsibility for the decision to use Yemen for refueling 
stops, but defended them, saying Aden was safer and more strategically 
located than other ports he considered. At the same time, he acknowledged 
the risks from terrorism given that Yemen had little control over 
its borders and its port at Aden _ and the people who came and went 
through them. ``Their coast is porous,'' he said. ``It's a sieve, 
as are their land borders.'' The committee's Republican chairman, 
Sen. John W. Warner of Virginia, underscored the point when he disclosed 
that Louis Freeh, the director of the FBI, who visited Aden Thursday, 
had told him that suspects identified by Yemeni authorities ``had 
been in and out of Yemen but just for a brief period.'' Several senators 
questioned whether the United States had ignored what Sen. Pat Roberts, 
R-Kan., called ``red flags'' about the safety and security of the 
port at Aden, in part out of desire to enhance diplomatic ties to 
Yemen. ``We know there will be risks around this world and we have 
to be engaged around this world,'' said Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, 
another Republican. ``But did we take more risk than we needed to 
in this instance?'' American warships began using the refueling station 
in Aden in March 1999 after negotiating a contract with a local contractor, 
the Arab Investment Manufacturing and Trading Co. Since then 24 ships 
have refueled there, officials said. Under its contract with a division 
of the Defense Logistics Agency, the company was required to provide 
security for its fueling facilities _ mainly, a Pentagon official 
said, to ensure the fuel was not tainted. The company was also responsible 
for the harbor boats used in mooring. None of its employees, however, 
were subjected to background checks or other security reviews _ something 
one Navy official suggested was not feasible in a place like Yemen. 
Officials declined to describe the extent to which such checks were 
routine at other foreign ports where Navy ships refuel. Since the 
boat that attacked the Cole appeared to have infiltrated the flotilla 
of boats assisting it as it docked, the company has become a focus 
of the investigation, a senior administration official said. The American 
Embassy in Yemen negotiated a separate contract with another company, 
the Al Mansoob Commercial Group, which served as a ``husbanding agent'' 
responsible for providing food and other supplies to visiting ships. 
Since the Cole's visit to Aden last week had not been publicly announced, 
investigators suspect that workers or officials in the port would 
have been among those who knew of its arrival and thus may have been 
involved in planning the attack.