Slow, steady drumbeats announced Missouri's final farewell for Mel 
Carnahan, the governor who died while seeking Harry Truman's former 
U.S. Senate seat. Mourners by the thousands _ President Bill Clinton 
and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton among them _ marched solemnly 
around the Missouri Capitol, leading to emotional ceremonies unprecedented 
in state history. ``Missourians, we have not come here today to bury 
our leader, but to remember him,'' said the Rev. Emanuel Cleaver, 
the former Kansas City mayor and close friend of Carnahan. ``We have 
not come here to canonize our governor, but rather to rededicate ourselves 
to state-building.'' Cleaver declared: ``The name Carnahan will remain 
precious in our memory.'' Then he led several thousand mourners standing 
under bright blue skies in the Lord's Prayer. A riderless black horse 
with its stirrups turned backward joined the processional from the 
Governor's Mansion to the Capitol grounds. Carnahan's widow, Jean, 
linked hands with her sons Russ and Tom, daughter Robin, daughter-in-law 
Debra and grandsons Austin and Andrew. The family led the processional's 
slow steps. Behind the family were the Clintons, Vice President Al 
Gore and his wife, Tipper, and new Gov. Roger Wilson and his wife, 
Pat. The procession halted at 11:11 a.m. on the south side of the 
Capitol. As the St. Louis Symphony String Quartet played ``Danny Boy,'' 
the casket was moved by an honor guard from the caisson to a marble 
platform. Many spectators sobbed and wiped tears as they watched. 
``This week has been one of the most painful weeks in the history 
of Missouri,'' former Sen. Tom Eagleton said in his eulogy. ``We have 
lost a man whose qualities are increasingly rare in public life.'' 
Eagleton also eulogized the other two victims of Monday night's crash: 
the governor's oldest son, Roger, and long-time Carnahan adviser Chris 
Sifford. The three were headed to a campaign event when the aircraft 
went down in rain and fog near St. Louis shortly after takeoff. Carnahan 
had been battling Republican Sen. John Ashcroft in one of the nation's 
tightest Senate races. Carnahan's name will stay on the Nov. 7 ballot 
because the deadline to change it has passed. If Carnahan receives 
the most votes, Wilson can appoint a replacement to serve until the 
next general election, in November 2002. Investigators with the National 
Transportation Safety Board are trying to determine what caused the 
crash. Officials said that among other factors, they were looking 
into possible problems with an indicator that helps maintain level 
flight. The investigation could take up to a year, NTSB member Carol 
Carmody said. On Thursday, Carnahan's casket, draped in an American 
flag, was viewed by an estimated 8,000 mourners who filed quietly 
through the Governor's Mansion. Among the mourners were Jim and Mary 
Magers, retired state workers from Jefferson City. After stopping 
at the casket, they signed a guest book and wiped away tears. ``He 
was the best governor, just the best,'' Jim Magers said. ___ On the 
Net: Governor's office: http://www.gov.state.mo.us