The United States would expect Russia to turn over Yugoslav President 
Slobodan Milosevic to an international war crimes tribunal if he should 
show up in Moscow, the Clinton administration said Tuesday. ``There's 
an indictment that calls for any country to hand him over to The Hague 
(tribunal),'' State Department spokesman Philip Reeker said. ``That's 
very clear, including Russia. ... We expect the indictment to be followed.'' 
He refused to say whether the United States would apply pressure to 
force Russia to send Milosevic to the tribunal if he went to Moscow. 
Reeker said the question is a hypothetical one ``that I don't need 
to get into'' because he said he's seen reports Milosevic will not 
go. ``It's not an issue for us,'' he said. On Monday, Russian President 
Vladimir Putin invited Milosevic and his challenger, Vojislav Kostunica, 
to Moscow for talks to resolve their dispute over the Sept. 24 presidential 
election. Kostunica says he won; Milosevic wants a runoff election 
Sunday. Asked how Putin's offer to mediate could take shape if the 
moment Milosevic showed up he would face extradition to the Hague, 
Reeker said: ``That's a question for Putin and Milosevic to discuss.'' 
``We believe (Milosevic) should be out of power, out of Serbia and 
in The Hague to face justice. Period,'' Reeker said. Milosevic was 
indicted last summer for alleged atrocities in the Serbian province 
of Kosovo. Kostunica has criticized the United States for repeatedly 
insisting on the hand-over of Milosevic because it was turning the 
elections into a question of the Yugoslav president's physical survival. 
``That indictment brings us a lot of headache,'' Kostunica said Monday 
at a news conference in Belgrade.'' It helped convince Milosevic, 
Kostunica said, that ``for him these elections are a question of life 
or death.'' In fact, Kostunica said, they are not. He and his aides 
have said not only would they refuse to extradite Milosevic but they 
also would guarantee his safety.