The Navy has revised its timetable of the events leading to the bombing 
of the USS Cole in Yemen, raising new questions about how the attackers 
foiled Navy security. The Navy said Friday the explosion occurred 
nearly two hours after the Cole was moored to a fuel dock, not during 
the mooring operation, as it had said before. That would mean the 
boat believed to have detonated the explosives did not blend in with 
a flotilla of harbor craft to mask the attack, as the Navy had said. 
It is now less clear than before how the attacking boat could have 
approached the Cole without raising suspicion. The Oct. 12 attack 
killed 17 U.S. sailors and injured 39. The last four bodies recovered 
from the Cole on Thursday were prepared Friday to be flown back to 
the United States from Bahrain. The remains of eight other Cole victims 
were due to arrive at Dover Air Force Base, Del., on Friday to be 
prepared for burial. Among the first set of five remains sent home 
last week was Craig Wibberley, a 19-year-old Maryland native. A wake 
and visitation were held Friday for Wibberley in Hagerstown, Md. He 
will be buried Saturday. In a brief statement Friday, the Navy's Office 
of Information said earlier Navy statements now known to be erroneous 
were based on initial reports from the ship that were either wrong 
or were misunderstood by Pentagon officials. The Navy said it now 
has obtained additional information from the Cole's records that change 
at least three points of fact in the official timeline. _The explosion 
occurred at 11:18 a.m. local time (4:18 a.m. EDT), or about an hour 
earlier than originally reported. _Refueling began at 10:30 a.m. and 
was ongoing at the time of the attack. Before, the Navy had said refueling 
had not yet begun. _The Cole was completely tied up at the fueling 
dock in Aden harbor at 9:30 a.m., nearly two hours before the attack. 
The Navy previously had said the mooring operation was completed just 
minutes before. This last point is of particular significance to investigators 
because it would seem to undercut the theory previously advanced by 
Navy officials that the small boat seen sidling up to the Cole at 
the time of the explosion used the mooring operation _ involving several 
harbor workboats _ as a means of masking its attack. Navy officials 
had said the attacking boat did not raise suspicions because it appeared 
to be part of the mooring operation, in which small harbor boats take 
the ship's lines to secure it to the floating dock. The Navy has said 
the Cole and its crew were at the second-highest level of alert observed 
in the Fifth Fleet, of which the Cole was a part at that time. Crew 
members would have been assigned to watch through binoculars for boats 
approaching the Cole, and others keeping watch would have been armed 
with weapons. Cmdr. Greg Smith, a Navy spokesman at the Pentagon, 
said the revised timeline was established this week by using more 
precise information from the Cole's records, information collected 
in response to an inquiry by the Navy Times newspaper, a nongovernment 
publication. The Navy Times said an unidentified source associated 
with the port of Aden told it the Navy's original timeline was incorrect. 
On the day of the attack, Adm. Vern Clark, the chief of naval operations, 
told a Pentagon news conference the explosion happened at 12:15 p.m. 
local time, that the Cole had just finished being tied up at the fuel 
dock and that the refueling had not yet begun. He also said this information 
was based on initial reports from the scene and that he could not 
be sure it was ''100 percent accurate.'' Pentagon and State Department 
officials canceled planned appearances Friday before a closed-door 
session of the Senate Armed Services Committee. The committee heard 
Thursday from retired Marine Corps Gen. Anthony Zinni, who said he 
made the decision to refuel at Aden, largely because there was no 
good alternative. The administration told the committee Friday it 
needed more time to prepare for the hearing, said committee chairman 
Sen. John Warner, R-Va. Asked if Aden should have been used for refueling 
Navy ships, Warner said, ``I don't think any of us has had sufficient 
facts to reach any conclusions.'' ___ On the Net: Navy: http://www.navy.mil