Soldiers pulled over cars escorting the wife of Ivory Coast's main 
opposition leader Tuesday and arrested some of her bodyguards, in 
a move activists called an attempt to harass the opposition. Opposition 
officials claimed the soldiers had been trying to kidnap Dominique 
Ouattara, the wife of opposition leader Alassane Dramane Ouattara. 
But the ruling military junta said the operation targeted the arrested 
bodyguards, who it claimed were trying to destabilize the government. 
More than 20 soldiers stopped a series of cars escorting Dominique 
Ouattara near her downtown office, said Aly Coulibaly, a spokesman 
for the Rally of the Republicans. Her driver sped away, and the soldiers 
seized five of her bodyguards _ including two French citizens _ and 
two drivers. In a statement, Coulibaly accused the government of harassing 
Ouattara and his wife in recent weeks, saying the acts could deteriorate 
``the climate of peace and serenity necessary'' before Oct. 22 presidential 
elections. Communications Minister Henri Cesar Sama, in a bitter verbal 
counterattack on national television, claimed the arrested men had 
been recruiting thugs to destabilize the Ivory Coast. Ouattara's party 
``has threatened to occupy the streets and create acts of violence,'' 
he said, warning that opposition leaders were under surveillance by 
authorities. ``If Ivory Coast burns, we are all going to burn together,'' 
he said. Tensions have been building in recent weeks as this West 
African nation moves toward the presidential vote. Supporters of junta 
leader Gen. Robert Guei claim that Ouattara's origins are in Burkina 
Faso, the neighboring northern state, and is ineligible to run in 
the race under a junta-backed constitution voted in last month. Ouattara, 
a former prime minister and ex-International Monetary Fund official, 
insists both he and his parents were Ivorian-born. Scores of Ouattara's 
supporters have surrounded his house day and night for more than a 
week, fearing a move against him by the junta. Guei came to power 
after a December military coup, the first in the history of the 40-year-old 
nation. The coup, and two military uprisings since then, have shaken 
the country's standing as a valued center of stability in troubled 
West Africa.