VOA was subject to a flurry of press attention this week, it had to 
do with this editorial broadcast Thursday on the Voice of America. 
On October 12th the USS Cole was the target of a terrorist bomb in 
Yemen. Seventeen US sailors are reported dead and more than three 
dozen were injured. "We will find out who was responsible and hold 
them accountable", said President Bill Clinton. An unidentified US 
State Department employee at first refused to clear the editorial 
because it did not mention the more than 100 Palestinians who have 
died in recent Middle East violence. VOA correspondent Nick Semion 
filed this story on Wednesday. The issue involves the preparation 
of a VOA editorial in which the US government vowed to bring to justice 
those responsible for last week's bombing of the navy destroyer, the 
USS Cole in Yemen. A State Department official involved in approving 
the editorial for broadcast sent a memo to VOA suggesting any mention 
of the deaths of the Americans needed to recognize as well the deaths 
of more than 100 Palestinians in violence in the Israeli occupied 
territories. The memo leaked to reporters said the editorial would 
not be approved for broadcast unless a reference to the Palestinian 
deaths was included. At the State Department Wednesday, Spokesman 
Phil Recur said the note sent to VOA was wrong and called the whole 
incident a mistake. Once we became aware of this error, we in fact 
went back and checked and the editorial in question was cleared and 
VOA was notified of that yesterday. VOA spokesman, Joel O'Connell 
says he does not know where the idea of comparing the deaths of Americans 
aboard the USS Cole to the deaths of Palestinians came from, but that 
VOA did not change its editorial to include it. In its broadcast, 
Voice of America must follow a charter written into law that requires 
it to be accurate, objective, and comprehensive in its reporting. 
The charter also requires VOA to present the official policies of 
the United States, which is done in editorial form, not prepared by 
VOA journalists, and clearly labeled as being separate from the news 
product. Nick Semion, VOA News at the State Department. Nick Semion 
mentioned the separation between the reporting an editorial functions 
at VOA. Many VOA staff members are dismayed by this recent publicity 
because it gives the impression that all VOA content is whetted by 
the State Department. Actually the only content on VOA that requires 
State Department clearance is the editorials, which are written by 
the International Broadcasting Bureau's Office of Policy. Some Americans 
who protested the original non-clearance of the editorial accused 
the State Department of censorship, but as the announcer says before 
each editorial, these are statements... Expressing the policies of 
the United States government. And thus it is understood that editorials 
heard on VOA are subject to revision and occasional rejection by the 
State Department. The Office of Policy submits 10 editorials per week 
to the State Department, about one or two are sent back for revision, 
it is rare for any editorial to be killed. The rejection of the Cole 
editorial happened at Tuesday, the rejection memo was leaked to the 
press and by 8 p.m. Washington Time, Tuesday the incident was reported 
by journalist Bill Crystal and Matt Drudge. The State Department sent 
a fax clearing the editorial at 11:30 p.m Tuesday. I have links to 
much of the news coverage of this story including an image of the 
memo rejecting the editorial and the transcript of the State Department 
news conference on the script for today's program at the Communications 
World website. That memo, by the way, looks like something that might 
have been prepared during World War II on a manual typewriter.