In the moments before it exploded, tearing a ragged hole in the destroyer 
Cole moored in Yemen, a white motorized skiff circled around the ship's 
bow and slowly skirted along its portside. Two men aboard the skiff 
nonchalantly waved to armed sailors standing watch on the Cole's deck, 
and the sailors waved back, officials said on Friday, in a new account 
of the attack. That account said the the small boat was not part of 
a flotilla helping the Cole moor to a refueling station in Aden on 
the morning of Oct. 12, contradicting initial Pentagon reports that 
its involvement in harbor operations enabled the attackers to avoid 
suspicion, and raising new questions about security on deck. In fact, 
the Cole was already moored and taking on fuel _ with many of its 
crew members relieved from duty on deck _ when the skiff approached, 
according to senior officials who have pieced together an account 
of the events that morning. Even so, the skiff's presence did not 
raise alarms among the sailors on watch. The crew was used to seeing 
curious boaters come up for a closer look whenever the Cole, one of 
the world's most advanced warships, sailed into port anywhere. At 
least some of those aboard assumed it must have been part of the mooring 
flotilla even though that operation had concluded, these officials 
said. At 11:18 a.m. local time, or 4:18 a.m. Eastern time, the skiff 
reached the midpoint of the Cole, pulled within a few feet of the 
hull and, with the two men aboard standing up, exploded with the force 
of 500 pounds of explosives that had been ``shaped'' to concentrate 
the blast directly into the destroyer. ``It came around the side and 
came up in a slow manner,'' a senior government official who has reviewed 
witnesses' accounts said on Friday. ``The guys in the boat waved at 
the Cole. There was nothing unusual; it was the way other boats have 
approached in port. They went putt-putt-putt along the side and then 
lit up.'' Eight days after the attack on the Cole killed 17 sailors, 
this clearer and significantly revised account of the incident is 
beginning to emerge, according to administration officials, Navy commanders 
and some of those aboard the Cole that day. Now that the last of those 
killed have been removed from the Cole, the new details have thrown 
a spotlight on the security precautions aboard the destroyer. They 
are also affecting the direction of the investigation, pointing to 
a strike that, one official said, could not have been carried out 
by known Yemeni terrorist cells without significant support from outside 
Yemen. American investigators have completed a series of field tests 
on residue found on the Cole, and one of the tests showed evidence 
of C-4, a powerful plastic explosive, two officials here said. However, 
the investigators do not believe the preliminary tests are conclusive 
and have brought samples to the United States for further analysis, 
they added. Plastic explosives like C-4 are expensive and relatively 
difficult for terrorist groups to obtain, suggesting the attackers 
in this case had extensive financial and operational support. The 
Navy announced Friday that in the initial confusion and overriding 
concern for the lost and wounded sailors, its commanders had misstated 
some of the details of the Cole's activities on the day of the attack. 
The Cole had in fact arrived in the port earlier in the morning, thrown 
its first mooring line over by 8:50 a.m. and completed mooring by 
9:30. About 10:30 it began refueling and had been doing so for nearly 
40 minutes when the skiff exploded at 11:18 _ an hour earlier than 
initially reported. The revised timing is significant because it contradicts 
first reports that the attackers were involved in the mooring operation, 
or had at least cleverly infiltrated it and, having thus blended in, 
did not appear suspicious. In fact, the small fiberglass skiff, packed 
with explosives, was not supposed to be that close to the Cole at 
that time and yet still raised no alarms, the officials said, raising 
questions about the crew's security procedures as the destroyer was 
refueling in a port considered dangerous, if not an overtly hostile. 
A senior Navy official said the ship's captain, Cmdr. Kirk S. Lippold, 
had reported by telephone to commanders in the region in the hours 
after the attack that the crew believed the skiff had been involved 
in mooring operation, suggesting the mooring was still under way. 
``Now the question will be, why did they think that?'' the official 
said. In addition to the criminal investigation in Yemen, the Navy 
and the Department of Defense have begun their own inquiries into 
what happened and questions about the security procedures aboard the 
Cole and in the port will be a primary focus, officials have said. 
The sequence of events outlined by officials on Friday supports initial 
eyewitness accounts _ reported immediately after the blast _ that 
the skiff had approached the Cole alone and unchallenged, not as part 
of the mooring operation. That also supports reports by Yemeni authorities 
that the skiff had been launched from a trailer beneath a bridge in 
Little Aden, about six miles from where the Cole moored to the refueling 
station. However, Yemeni officials have repeatedly said the boat seen 
launched that morning was a rubber dingy, while American officials 
say the boat carrying the bomb was made of fiberglass. Navy officials 
argued that the new details did not change the fundamental facts of 
the case, saying the Cole's sailors had no reason to suspect the skiff 
and could have done little to stop it. ``If a boat doesn't speed in 
and come right at you, how do you determine hostile intent?'' a senior 
officer said. The unthreatening behavior of the two men _ and the 
fact that the skiff was not unlike other boats plying the harbor _ 
evidently put the Cole's guards at ease. Still, the skiff raised enough 
concern by its actions that, according to the officials, the sailors 
aboard closely tracked it as it made its way and watched as the two 
men stood moments before the blast. American warships entering any 
port _ especially one, like Aden, that is considered potentially dangerous 
_ have clear security guidelines. In this case, the officials said, 
the Cole was operating under a heightened state of alert, known as 
threat condition bravo, that required sailors armed with rifles and 
wearing body armor to watch all boats approaching the ship. Seaman 
Raymond Mooney, one of the 39 sailors injured and evacuated to the 
United States, said in an interview from the Naval Medical Center 
in Portsmouth, Va., on Monday that the Cole's crew was not supposed 
to allow boats to get too close to their ship in port. Often they 
did, though, waving friendly greetings. ``They were doing it when 
we stopped in France,'' he said. As for Aden, he added, ``It was a 
friendly port.''