From his distant view in downtown Norfolk, Va., Dave Rosenfield, the 
general manager of the Norfolk Tides, said the Subway Series seemed 
like a page out of some subterranean nightmare. He has been following 
the drama, reading the dueling headlines laden with talk of ``Civil 
War'' and ``battles.'' He has watched with the mixed feeling of someone 
with one foot in the baseball world of metaphors and similes, and 
the other foot in the world of the U.S. Navy, where real people sometimes 
die defending the right of a country to enjoy the national pastime. 
From Rosenfield's baseball standpoint, the Series is satisfying. Bobby 
Valentine managed at Norfolk in 1994 and 1996. Benny Agbayani played 
at Norfolk from 1996 to 1999. Agbayani and his wife were married at 
home plate at the Tides' Harbor Park before the International League's 
1998 All-Star Game. ``Benny was a guy who was passed over and played 
hard enough that he forced somebody to look at him,'' Rosenfield said. 
Jay Payton played at Norfolk in 1995, 1996, 1998 and 1999. ``Here's 
a guy who spent his whole career injured until this year,'' Rosenfield 
said. ``This is the first year that he's ever remained healthy.'' 
Bobby J. Jones pitched the first game in the Tides' new stadium in 
1993. This year, the Tides' brief, shining star was Timo Perez, who 
came out of nowhere. ``When they sent him up to us in June,'' Rosenfield 
said, ``they took Jason Tyner to the majors and said, `We're going 
to send you Perez.' I said, `You're going to do what? Who?' Nobody 
knew him at all.'' But on other fronts, the impending Subway Series 
has been a thorn in Rosenfield's side and a disappointment. The ticket 
crush has been disheartening. Rosenfield was allotted 20 tickets for 
each of the three games at Shea Stadium. He has no tickets for Yankee 
Stadium. ``If I had 100 tickets, I couldn't take care of what I've 
got,'' he said. ``We have our major sponsors, our owners, our investors, 
our major advertisers. I've had a list going since July. ``It's been 
terrible. It's taken some of the fun out of the anticipation of the 
Series for me.'' But what really took the joy out of the Series was 
the recent bombing attack against the Navy destroyer Cole, which took 
the lives of 17 crew members. The Tides' office is only 20 minutes 
south of the Norfolk Naval Station, where the Cole is based. The Tides' 
organization has developed a close relationship with the Navy. ``Over 
the course of each season, we have a number of sailors who want to 
re-enlist on the field,'' Rosenfield said. Two years ago, the Tides 
were the hosts of the International League All-Star Game and tossed 
a pregame party on the USS Enterprise. The team has special prices 
for active members of the military and does a number of group nights 
linked to the naval base. On May 15, the Cole had such a night at 
Harbor Park. Rosenfield said he was devastated by news of the attack. 
``I'm terribly disturbed,'' he said. ``It's kind of an eerie feeling 
when you read about any sort of a naval disaster, but particularly 
with a ship that's home-ported here _ the feeling that you probably 
met some of those guys. ``It brings the world situation closer than 
you want it to be. You'd rather have things detached, but when something 
like that happens, it really just brings it home.'' Rosenfield, who 
turned 69 last spring, can remember when the Japanese attacked Pearl 
Harbor. ``I don't think any of us in the United States felt the same 
thing about war that the people, say, in Britain did,'' Rosenfield 
said. ``I think it was brought home to us if we had relatives that 
were killed or injured or captured, but the fact is that the war really 
never came to our street. I think when you become involved in a situation 
like we were in here, with the Cole and the Navy, you feel like it's 
on your block.'' He wondered if Major League Baseball would do something 
to honor the sailors who lost their lives and the sailors who survived. 
Perhaps Major League Baseball could invite the sailors to New York 
to attend a game. ``I think that would give a marvelous feeling to 
the whole Series,'' Rosenfield said. Later in the day, Commissioner 
Bud Selig said the idea had been tossed around in a meeting, but had 
not gone much further. The more he thought of it, the more he said 
he realized that a tribute during baseball's greatest drama would 
be fitting. By the end of the day, Selig had discussed the matter 
with Rear Admiral Jay Foley, commander of the Naval Surface Force, 
U.S. Atlantic Fleet. They agreed to have some of the sailors honored 
during Game 4 on Wednesday at Shea Stadium. Rosenfield said it was 
the best news he had received in weeks. ``We're going to do something 
big,'' Selig said. ``We're going to bring as many as we can; we will 
do something that honors each one of them. ``But you know what's so 
amazing?'' he added. ``They were flattered that we would even think 
about them. That's what's so stunning. After what I've put up with 
all day, with ticket requests from people. No, they will be more than 
appropriately honored, although as I said to the admiral, we're the 
ones who are honored. ``You've got to put life in its perspective. 
This is a baseball game. I used to tell myself that when the Brewers 
would blow a game and I'd think the world was coming to an end. And 
all of a sudden I'd realize you have to go through an evolution of 
really understanding what's important in life and what isn't. This 
is the least we can do, and it's hardly enough, and it's nothing compared 
to what they've done.'' There were complaints that the New York-New 
York World Series was too self-absorbed. With survivors from the Cole 
coming to the city on Wednesday, the Subway Series is what New York 
is at its core: a place and event the entire nation can embrace.