The Navy has altered its account of events leading to the bombing 
of the USS Cole in Yemen last week. The changes raise new questions 
about how the attackers foiled Navy security. The Navy said Friday 
the explosion occurred nearly two hours after the Cole was moored 
to a fuel dock in Aden harbor, not during the mooring operation, as 
it said before. That means the boat believed to have detonated the 
explosives did not use a flotilla of harbor craft as cover, as the 
Navy said previously. It is now less clear than before how the attacking 
boat could have approached the Cole without raising suspicion. The 
Oct. 12 attack killed 17 U.S. sailors and injured 39. The last four 
bodies recovered from the Cole on Thursday were to be flown back to 
the United States from Bahrain over the weekend. The remains of eight 
other Cole victims were returned to Dover Air Force Base, Del., on 
Friday in preparation for burial. The first set of five remains were 
sent home last week. In a brief statement Friday, the Navy's Office 
of Information said earlier statements now known to be erroneous were 
based on initial reports from the ship that were either wrong or were 
misunderstood by Pentagon officials. The Navy said it now has obtained 
additional information from the Cole's records that change at least 
three points of fact in the official timeline. _The explosion occurred 
at 11:18 a.m. local time (4:18 a.m. EDT), or about an hour earlier 
than originally reported. _Refueling began at 10:30 a.m. and was ongoing 
at the time of the attack. Before, the Navy had said refueling had 
not yet begun. _The Cole was completely tied up at the fueling dock 
in Aden harbor at 9:30 a.m., nearly two hours before the attack. The 
Navy previously had said the mooring operation was completed just 
minutes before. This last point is of particular significance to investigators 
because it would seem to undercut the theory previously advanced by 
Navy officials that the small boat seen sidling up to the Cole at 
the time of the explosion used the mooring operation _ involving several 
harbor work boats _ as a means of masking its attack. Navy officials 
had said the attacking boat did not raise suspicions because it appeared 
to be part of the mooring operation, in which small harbor boats take 
the ship's lines to secure it to the floating dock. The Navy has said 
the Cole and its crew were at the second-highest level of alert observed 
in the Fifth Fleet, of which the Cole was a part at that time. Crew 
members would have been assigned to watch through binoculars for boats 
approaching the Cole, and others keeping watch would have been armed 
with weapons. Cmdr. Greg Smith, a Navy spokesman at the Pentagon, 
said the revised timeline was established this week by using more 
precise information from the Cole's records, information collected 
in response to an inquiry by the Navy Times newspaper, a nongovernment 
publication. The newspaper said an unidentified source associated 
with the port of Aden told it the Navy's original timeline was incorrect. 
On the day of the attack, Adm. Vern Clark, the chief of naval operations, 
told a Pentagon news conference the explosion happened at 12:15 p.m. 
local time, that the Cole had just finished being tied up at the fuel 
dock and that the refueling had not yet begun. He also said this information 
was based on initial reports from the scene and that he could not 
be sure it was ''100 percent accurate.'' Pentagon and State Department 
officials canceled planned appearances Friday before a closed-door 
session of the Senate Armed Services Committee. The committee heard 
Thursday from retired Marine Corps Gen. Anthony Zinni, who said he 
made the decision to refuel at Aden, largely because there was no 
good alternative. The administration told the panel Friday that it 
needed more time to prepare for the hearing, said committee chairman 
Sen. John Warner, R-Va. ___ On the Net: Navy: http://www.navy.mil