Ten months after an army coup shattered this nation's reputation for 
political tranquility and brought a military government to power, 
Ivory Coast was voting Sunday in presidential elections that the country's 
two largest parties are boycotting. Gen. Robert Guei, the military 
ruler who came to power during the December coup promising to step 
down quickly, faces serious competition from just one of his four 
opponents in the controversial vote: history professor and longtime 
opposition leader Laurent Gbagbo. Most candidates, including those 
from the country's two largest political parties, were disqualified 
last month by the Supreme Court. On Saturday, as the two-week campaign 
season came to a close, Gbagbo urged his supporters to watch for fraud 
during the election. ``Go tomorrow to vote. Be vigilant, be there 
at every polling station to oversee the vote,'' he told cheering supporters 
at a rally in Abidjan, Ivory Coast's main city. Campaigning has been 
largely muted in Ivory Coast. Guei, whose own soldiers have staged 
two mutinies since the coup and who, officials say, survived an assassination 
attempt in September, has barely appeared in public, apparently fearful 
of his security. The country's best-known opposition candidate, Alassane 
Dramane Ouattara, was excluded because of what the Supreme Court said 
were questions over whether both his parents were of ``Ivorian origin,'' 
as a new junta-backed constitution requires. Ouattara's Rally of the 
Republicans (RDR) and the former ruling Democratic Party of the Ivory 
Coast (PDCI), whose candidates were also excluded, have both called 
for a boycott of the polls. While it was too early to predict national 
turnout, it appeared to be nearly nonexistent Sunday morning in Korhogo, 
the main city in northern Ivory Coast, where Ouattara has his base 
of power. Two polling stations had no people in line and another had 
just four waiting for voting to begin, one hour after the scheduled 
8 a.m. opening. ``As you can see, the north is sleeping through this 
election,'' said polling station worker, Drissa Dialo. The United 
Nations, the Organization of African Unity, the European Union and 
countries such as the United States and Canada have withdrawn election 
observers or funding to protest Guei's decision to run and the exclusion 
of major opponents. The past year has seen Ivory Coast suffer under 
through a series of crises that have badly blemished its longtime 
reputation for stability and relative wealth. Its economy has been 
crippled by a steep decline in prices for its primary exports, cocoa 
and coffee, while the December takeover and the two subsequent mutinies 
have frightened Ivorians and foreign investors alike.