With most candidates barred, the two largest parties boycotting and 
a military ruler seeking to entrench his power as a civilian, residents 
of this West African nation trickled to polling stations Sunday to 
elect a new president. The voting came ten months after an army coup 
brought a junta to power, sparking a series of political crises and 
leaving this nation's reputation for political tranquility in shreds. 
Junta leader Gen. Robert Guei faces serious competition from just 
one of his four opponents in the controversial vote: history professor 
and longtime opposition leader Laurent Gbagbo. Most candidates, including 
those from the country's two largest political parties, were disqualified 
last month by the Supreme Court. The United Nations, the Organization 
of African Unity, the European Union and countries such as the United 
States and Canada have withdrawn election observers or funding, saying 
the exclusion of major opponents have made a truly free and fair election 
impossible. While national figures were not yet available, voting 
appeared light at polling stations in a number of Ivorian cities, 
with most reporting less than 30 percent turnout. Voters were nearly 
nonexistent in many parts of Korhogo, the main city in the north and 
a stronghold of support for the now-disqualified opposition leader, 
Alassane Dramane Ouattara. ``As you can see, the north is sleeping 
through this election,'' polling worker Drissa Dialo said at one empty 
voting station. Ouattara's Rally of the Republicans (RDR) and the 
former ruling Democratic Party of the Ivory Coast (PDCI), whose candidates 
were also excluded by the court, have both called for a boycott of 
the polls. The chief justice of the Supreme Court has close ties to 
Guei, who had insisted in December that he would quickly cede power 
to a civilian. ``The general came to sweep the house (clean), but 
he didn't leave, he didn't keep his promise,'' said Bema Coulibaly, 
a Korhogo resident who said he wouldn't be voting Sunday. Campaigning 
has been muted in Ivory Coast, the world's largest cocoa producer. 
Guei (pronounced GAY-ee), whose own soldiers have staged two mutinies 
since the coup and who, officials say, survived an assassination attempt 
in September, has barely appeared in public, apparently fearful of 
his security. But while he has thrown the weight of the junta behind 
his election, Guei has insisted he will step down if he loses. ``Ivory 
Coast is a country of peace, where everything takes place in serenity,'' 
he said Sunday after voting amid heavy security at a primary school 
near his house, in an upscale Abidjan neighborhood. Guei has seen 
his popularity wane since the December coup, when cheering crowds 
filled the streets of some neighborhoods to welcome the ouster of 
President Henri Konan Bedie, who was widely seen as corrupt and ethnically 
divisive. But for some Ivorians, Guei is still seen as the only candidate 
who can control Ivory Coast's politically divided and often-thuggish 
security forces. ``Without him, there would have been civil war,'' 
said Nicodeme Zan, a voter in Abidjan. Gbagbo (pronounced BAHG-bo), 
for his part, said he believed most of Ivory Coast's 5.5 million registered 
voters would oppose Guei, who for many remains a soldier _ albeit 
one who now sports a suit and tie. ``In Ivory Coast's present state, 
I find it unlikely that they will vote in a military man to head the 
government,'' he said just before casting his ballot. Many of his 
supporters are already referring to Gbagbo as ``president,'' and some 
have warned they will take to the streets if he is not declared the 
winner. ``The soldiers have done their job now and they must go back 
to the barracks,'' said Jean-Pierre Nassoue, 35, who writes for a 
true-crime magazine. ``It doesn't matter who wins, just not a soldier.'' 
Polling stations started closing at 6 p.m., with some staying open 
later to compensate for delays getting started in the morning. International 
observers reported minor irregularities, including missing voting 
materials and confusion over electoral procedures, but attributed 
the problems to ``disorder not malice,'' said an official for the 
European Union, which had about 30 observers stationed across the 
country. ``Once you swallow the big swallow, which is that there are 
only five candidates ... things haven't gone too badly,'' the official 
said on condition of anonymity. Ouattara, the country's best-known 
opposition candidate, was excluded after the Supreme Court said there 
were questions over whether both his parents were of ``Ivorian origin,'' 
as a new junta-backed constitution requires. The past year has seen 
Ivory Coast suffer through a series of crises, including the two military 
mutinies and a further erosion of the country's economy, already battered 
by a steep decline in prices for its primary exports, cocoa and coffee. 
The instability has frightened Ivorians and foreign investors alike.