the remains of four sailors killed in the "uss cole" bombing returned 
to dover air force base in delaware today. they were the last of the 
dead to be flown home. but in yemen, the search for those responsible 
for the bombing continues. investigators turned up new evidence and 
more leads today. abc's john miller reports. investigators have searched 
at least half a dozen homes around the port of aden including this 
one, trying to retrace the movements of what they believe may be six 
or more suspects. this house on al zaharah stree half a mile from 
the port is where investigators believe the bomb was built into the 
boat that carried it. just after the men moved in, neighbors say they 
erected a metal corrugated wall to block the neighbors' view of the 
yard. investigators say the men who lived here worked on the boat 
behind these walls in the last few days of their stay almost constantly. 
at first, neighbors were curious, but later they complained about 
the noise. on the day of the bombing, neighbors saw the boat leaving 
through these gates pulled by a nissan 4 x 4 truck. the trip from 
the house to the harbor was only about a mile. then six miles by water 
to the spot where the american destroyer was refueling. today, fbi 
agents and divers were collecting evidence near the place they believe 
the boat was lowered into the water just before the attack on the 
"uss cole" which killed 17 sailors and two suicide bombers. investigators 
have come up with a series of names of possible suspects found on 
papers in the houses and cars they searched. in some cases, they have 
some names. they have not been able to verify whether they're accurate, 
true names, in other cases, i don't believe they have identities yet. 
yemeni sources say some of the bombers may have used id cards issued 
by a government registration center 35 miles from aden. today, at 
the walled-in headquarters of the government security agency, the 
manager of that center and several clerks who worked there were among 
dozens who have been detained and questioned. investigators are aware 
that a few weeks before the bombing, accused terrorist leader osama 
bin laden released a videotape calling for holy war against americans 
in the gulf. american investigators also say the way the bombers organized 
the plot in aden has stark similarities to the way bin laden's cells 
have operated in the past. but, they concede, while they are closer 
to learning the names of the bombers, they are still a long way from 
knowing or proving who sent them. john miller, abc news, aden.