Slobodan Milosevic's police entered a major coal mine south of here 
Wednesday to break up one of the biggest strikes launched so far to 
drive the Yugoslav president from power, an independent news agency 
said. Truckloads of police and soldiers entered the Kolubara mine 
complex after the government said the five-day strike threatened electricity 
supplies, the independent Beta news agency said. A striker who answered 
the telephone at the facility said miners were refusing to leave the 
compound and so far there had been no clashes nor arrests. He refused 
to give his name. Beta quoted a strike leader Predgrag Stefanovic 
as appealing to residents of nearby towns ``to come and help us.'' 
The action came one day after the Milosevic government threatened 
``special measures'' against leaders of strikes and road blockades, 
which were launched this week to force the Yugoslav president to concede 
defeat to challenger Vojislav Kostunica in the Sept. 24 election. 
Milosevic concedes that Kostunica outpolled him in the five-candidate 
race but fell short of an absolute majority. A run-off is set for 
Sunday but the opposition has called for a boycott. Earlier, police 
arrested several truck drivers blocking roads in Milosevic's hometown 
Pozarevac about 30 miles southeast of Belgrade. Beta said the government 
had brought in strikebreakers from Kosovo, where many miners are out 
of work since NATO and the United Nations took over the province last 
year. The opposition has accused Milosevic of massive fraud in the 
election and on Wednesday sought to prove the allegations before Yugoslavia's 
Constitutional Court. The tribunal met in emergency session to hear 
claims by the 18-party opposition coalition that Milosevic's cronies 
manipulated election results by using a sophisticated software program. 
Opposition leaders said they had obtained a copy of the program and 
would use it to illustrate how the vote was rigged to favor Milosevic's 
candidacy. But the court is full of Milosevic loyalists and has rendered 
a number of controversial verdicts. Information Minister Goran Matic 
claimed the opposition ``committed electoral fraud'' and was now trying 
to provoke violence by ``discrediting and denying the validity of 
the result.''