Despite new clues that suggest the bombing of the destroyer Cole may 
have involved more than the two men who died in the blast, American 
officials cautioned Sunday against concluding that they were close 
to identifying the group responsible or to retaliating militarily. 
Eleven days after the attack that killed 17 sailors and wounded 39, 
Yemeni officials working with the Americans in the investigation said 
they had found three more houses used by the suspects, bringing the 
total discovered so far to five. Yemeni security sources also said 
that a group of officials in Lahej, a town about 25 miles north, had 
been detained for allegedly allowing offices there to issue identity 
documents with assumed names that were used in the conspiracy. One 
of those documents was an identity card thought to have belonged to 
one of the two men who pulled a skiff alongside the Cole in Aden harbor 
and detonated enough explosives to blow a hole 40 feet in diameter 
in the vessel's port side. In a report citing Yemeni security sources 
close to the investigation, the Associated Press said Saturday that 
the document was issued in the name of Abdullah Ahmed Khaled al-Musawah, 
but the American and Yemeni officials refused to confirm the name 
or to say that the name represented a significant breakthrough. The 
identity card was part of evidence uncovered by the Yemenis earlier 
last week when a 12-year-old Yemeni boy led them to an abandoned vehicle 
and a boat trailer left beside a remote boat ramp about six miles 
from the harbor mooring point where the Cole was attacked. The boy 
also led them to the first two houses used by the suspects, in the 
neighborhoods of Little Aden and Medinat Ash Shab. Yemeni officials, 
who reported Sunday that they had uncovered the additional houses 
used by the suspect, would only say they were in or near Aden. When 
the earlier discoveries were made known, six days after the bombing, 
American officials implied that the trail followed by FBI agents, 
who have accompanied Yemeni investigators at every stage of the investigation, 
had gone cold after it was established that an important document 
found in one of the houses, a driver's license, was issued in a false 
name. The trail led, among other places, to Hahdramaut, a remote province 
in eastern Yemen named on the license as the holder's place of origin. 
This left them with a photograph of a man on the license, said to 
have been in his 30s or early 40s, who investigators believe may have 
been ``the bearded man with spectacles'' identified by the Yemeni 
boy as having drawn up in the vehicle on the morning of the Cole attack. 
On Sunday, a Yemeni official confirmed that the vehicle found near 
the boat ramp was a Nissan with four-wheel-drive, of a kind widely 
used in this country of rocky deserts and rugged mountain passes. 
Officials in Washington have said the boat was 20 feet to 26 feet 
long and white, and that shards found on the Cole, now being examined 
along with other evidence at FBI laboratories in Washington, indicated 
that it was made of fiberglass. A tank apparently used to test the 
boat's outboard motor was found at one of the houses. Barbara Bodine, 
the American ambassador to Yemen, said on Saturday that the investigation 
was ``expanding,'' to the point that American officials were confident 
that they would break the case. But after the report Sunday about 
a name on the driver's license, American officials here tried to discourage 
speculation that they were closing in on suspects. They said their 
``prime suspect'' was ``the broad jihadist network'' _ the array of 
Islamic militant groups from east Asia to the Middle East that have 
declared a ``holy war,'' or jihad in Arabic, against the United States. 
At a briefing, the officials insisted that they were far from being 
able to recommend possible targets for a retaliatory American military 
strike of the kind hinted at by President Clinton in the aftermath 
of the Cole attack that those responsible would be held ``accountable'' 
and allowed ``no safe harbor.'' (BEGIN OPTIONAL TIRM) After the terrorist 
bombings of two American embassies in East Africa in August 1998, 
Clinton ordered Navy cruise missile strikes on targets in Sudan and 
Afghanistan, saying that an American investigation had identified 
Osama bin Laden, the Saudi Arabian exile and Islamic militant living 
in Afghanistan, as the prime figure in the attacks. Bin Laden, who 
has a $5 million American reward on his head, recently issued warnings 
of fresh attacks on American targets through a videotape delivered 
to an Arab-language satellite television channel in Qatar. His name 
has frequently entered into the Cole investigation, especially after 
President Ali Abdullah Saleh of Yemen disclosed that the fake driver's 
license named Hadhramaut, the ancestral home of bin Laden's family, 
which moved to Saudi Arabia in the 1950s. American officials have 
insisted from the outset of the Cole investigation that their priority 
in making public statements would be to avoid anything that would 
``chill leads.'' This has suggested that they will have a strong incentive 
to avoid giving out information that would tip off potential targets 
of a military strike, as appears to have happened in 1998, when bin 
Laden fled one of his training camps in Afghanistan shortly before 
the missiles struck. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) But Sunday they insisted 
that there was nothing yet to justify speculation that an attack might 
be imminent. They acknowledged that bin Laden's recent marriage in 
the Afghan city of Kandahar to a Yemeni woman, possibly one from Hadhramaut, 
could indicate he wanted to strengthen contacts with Yemen ahead of 
a possible move from Afghanistan, but insisted that they were not 
yet focusing on any individual, group or country as responsible for 
the Cole attack. ``Even if you were considering a military response 
at this point, we have no idea where,'' one official said. ``Do we 
go to Afghanistan, Pakistan _ that's way down the line.''