Ten months after the military seized power in an initially popular 
coup, Ivorians voted on Sunday in a presidential election that included 
the putsch leader and four civilian candidates, but excluded those 
of the two biggest parties. The ballot, which followed tense weeks 
when political and ethnic rivalries pushed this West African nation 
on a knife-edge, took place peacefully across the country. Voter turnout, 
perhaps the most critical factor in an election that was boycotted 
by the two major parties, appeared low at a dozen voting stations 
here in the commercial capital. The election, whose results were not 
expected until Monday at the earliest, pitted the junta leader, Gen. 
Robert Guei, against Laurent Gbagbo, the leader of the Ivorian Popular 
Front, the country's third largest party, as well as three little-known 
candidates. Whatever the election's outcome, the winner will find 
it difficult to be recognized here and abroad. Most international 
observers withdrew from the Ivory Coast earlier this month after a 
court controlled by Guei eliminated the candidates of the two biggest 
parties, including the Rally of the Republicans led by Alassane D. 
Ouattara, a former deputy managing director of the International Monetary 
Fund. The United States and the European Union also cut their financial 
support toward the election, saying the election was flawed from the 
start. Inside the Ivory Coast, the 40 percent of the population that 
is Muslim felt alienated after the court eliminated all candidates 
from the Muslim north, leaving five, all Christians from the south. 
In recent months, both Guei and Gbagbo ran xenophobic campaigns aimed 
against northerners. Fear of what might follow the election cast a 
shadow over the vote on Sunday. In the working-class neighborhood 
of Yopougon, Leon Adouby, a 30-year-old accountant, woke up early 
this morning to stand in line before the polls opened at 8 a.m. Adouby, 
a longtime supporter of Gbagbo, was nevertheless worried that the 
country's oldest and richest party, the Democratic Party of the Ivory 
Coast, had not been allowed to participate. ``The PDCI is a heavyweight,'' 
Adouby said, using the party's French acronym. ``If you don't put 
the PDCI in this dance and a president is elected, the results won't 
be clear. Unfortunately, there will be a gap _ and that worries me.'' 
Guei, who ran as an independent after failing to become the candidate 
of the Democratic Party of the Ivory Coast, cast his ballot on Sunday 
at a school just outside his house. Dressed in a light-blue suit, 
the general, who barely campaigned because of security concerns, came 
to the voting station accompanied by scores of soldiers and police 
officers. ``The Ivory Coast is a country of peace where everything 
takes place in serenity,'' the general said. ``The winner will win.'' 
An hour later, Gbagbo, a socialist who is the country's oldest opposition 
figure, was more combative after voting. ``It's difficult for me to 
imagine that I could lose,'' he said, expressing worries that the 
general's supporters might commit fraud. He added: ``I hope the losers 
won't be sore losers.'' It was too early to tell how many of the country's 
5.5 million registered voters came out. But in Abidjan visits to several 
neighborhoods indicated that turnout was lower than the one for a 
constitutional referendum in July, which had the participation of 
all the parties. This time, leaders of the Democratic Party of the 
Ivory Coast and the Rally of the Republicans _ which together won 
75 percent of the votes in the 1995 legislative elections _ instructed 
their followers to boycott the vote. And so lines at voting booths 
were thin in neighborhoods like Adjame or Abobo, considered strongholds 
of the Rally of the Republicans. Many stations were deserted. Among 
voters interviewed at different stations, almost all said they had 
chosen Gbagbo. ``We must elect a civilian candidate,'' said Frederic 
Gbessi Guie, a 30-year-old teacher. ``We cannot reward a man who seized 
power by force. If he stays in power, our country's problems will 
continue. We'll still be cut off by the international donors.''