The remains of the last of the 17 sailors killed in a suspected terrorist 
attack on USS Cole were returned to the United States on Sunday for 
burial. Family members watched from the tarmac as pallbearers removed 
four flag-draped caskets from a military plane and carried them to 
waiting hearses before an honor guard. Two of the deceased were identified 
as Hull Maintenance Technician 3rd Class Kenneth Eugene Clodfelter, 
21, of Mechanicsville, Va., and Fireman Apprentice Patrick Howard 
Roy, 19, of Keedysville, Md. Maj. Frank Smolinsky, chief of public 
affairs at the base, said he could not identify the other two sailors 
whose remains were returned. The bodies will be examined at the Dover 
base for evidence and prepared for burial and then delivered to their 
next-of-kin. The remains of eight sailors have so far been returned 
to their families for burial. On Saturday, the family of Seaman Craig 
Wibberley buried the 19-year-old near his hometown of Williamsport 
in western Maryland. More than 700 people, including Lt. Gov. Kathleen 
Kennedy Townsend, attended the funeral. ``Whether you've been in the 
service for one day or 20 or 30 years, it's important to show that 
all of us are members of a family,'' said retired Air Force officer 
Susan Hankey Webb, who was those attending. In all, 17 sailors were 
killed and 39 others were injured Oct. 12 when an explosion tore a 
40-by-40-foot hole in the USS Cole while the destroyer was refueling 
in the Yemeni port of Aden. Authorities in Yemen have been searching 
houses and other locations believed to have been used by two suicide 
bombers and possibly others involved in the attack. A senior U.S. 
government official in Aden, who spoke on condition of anonymity, 
said a great deal of physical evidence had been found, though he wouldn't 
elaborate. Meanwhile, sailors on the USS Cole continued repair work 
on the destroyer while divers collected forensic evidence from the 
sea bed below the damaged ship. The 505-foot destroyer is to eventually 
be carried back to the United States on the deck of a ``heavy lift'' 
vessel. ___ On the Net: Navy: http://www.navy.mil/