Early returns Monday showed an opposition candidate in a close race 
with the junta leader in Ivory Coast's elections, billed as a return 
to civilian government 10 months after a military coup. Opposition 
leader Laurent Gbagbo predicted victory over Gen. Robert Guei, although 
the votes counted so far from Sunday's election came from mainly rural 
areas and small towns. Ballots in major cities, including Abidjan, 
had yet to be tabulated. Gbagbo had 51.35 percent and Guei had 40.40 
percent of the 126,683 ballots counted so far, a national election 
commission official announced on state-run television. The remaining 
votes were divided between three minor candidates. Final results remained 
far from clear. The preliminary figures accounted for a tiny fraction 
of the total possible vote from about 5.5 million registered voters. 
Turnout figures were incomplete, although voting often was reported 
at less than 30 percent in a random check Sunday of polling stations 
in Ivorian cities. Election officials reported a turnout of just 34 
percent in the areas counted so far. Voters were nearly nonexistent 
in many parts of Korhogo, the main city in the north and a stronghold 
of support for the disqualified main opposition leader, Alassane Dramane 
Ouattara. The country's two largest political parties boycotted the 
ballot after their leaders were barred from running. Gbagbo _ a former 
history professor and left-leaning politician _ was the only candidate 
who posed a threat to the junta leader. He said victory looked apparent. 
``We believe we have won,'' he told cheering supporters at his campaign 
headquarters early Monday morning. Guei's spokesman, Desire-Paulin 
Dakoury, said the military leader declined to make predictions until 
the final result was clear. While Guei has thrown the weight of the 
junta behind his election, he has insisted he will step down if he 
loses. International observers reported minor irregularities, including 
missing voting materials and confusion over electoral procedures, 
but attributed the problems to ``disorder, not malice,'' said an official 
for the European Union, which had about 30 observers across the country. 
Most candidates, including those from the country's two largest political 
parties, were disqualified last month by the Supreme Court. Those 
two parties, Ouattara's Rally of the Republicans and the former ruling 
Democratic Party of the Ivory Coast, called the boycott. The United 
Nations, the Organization of African Unity, the European Union and 
countries such as the United States and Canada withdrew election observers 
or funding, saying the exclusion of major opponents made a truly free 
and fair election impossible. Guei (pronounced GAY-EE), whose own 
soldiers have staged two mutinies since the coup and who, officials 
say, survived an assassination attempt in September, has barely appeared 
in public during the campaign, apparently fearful of his security. 
Guei has seen his popularity plummet since the December coup, when 
cheering crowds filled the streets of some neighborhoods to welcome 
the ouster of President Henri Konan Bedie, who was widely seen as 
corrupt and ethnically divisive. Gbagbo (pronounced BAHG-bo), for 
his part, has long said he believed most voters would oppose Guei, 
who for many remains a soldier _ albeit one who now sports a suit 
and tie. Many of Gbagbo's supporters were already addressing him as 
``president,'' and warned they would take to the streets if he was 
not declared the winner. Dozens of supporters paraded outside his 
suburban Abidjan home early Monday, chanting ``Let's celebrate victory!'' 
Ouattara, the country's best-known opposition candidate, was excluded 
after the Supreme Court said there were questions over whether both 
his parents were of ``Ivorian origin,'' as a new junta-backed constitution 
requires. The past year has seen Ivory Coast suffer through a series 
of crises, including the two military mutinies and a further erosion 
of the country's economy, already battered by a steep decline in prices 
for its primary exports, cocoa and coffee. The instability has frightened 
Ivorians and foreign investors alike. Ivory Coast is the world's largest 
cocoa producer.