Top Democrats are urging Missouri's new governor to appoint the widow 
of Mel Carnahan as senator if the late governor receives more votes 
than Sen. John Ashcroft in the Nov. 7 election. Carnahan, a Democrat, 
was in a tight race for the Senate when he, son Roger and campaign 
aide Chris Sifford were killed in a plane crash on their way to a 
rally last week. Carnahan's death came too late to take his name off 
the ballot. Should Carnahan get more votes, newly appointed Gov. Roger 
Wilson _ also a Democrat _ would have to appoint an interim senator 
to fill out the term until the November 2002 general election. ``I 
have discussed that scenario with the governor and with people who 
are very close to Jean Carnahan, and everyone is waiting for Mrs. 
Carnahan to say yes or no. It's her call,'' state Sen. James Mathewson, 
a close ally of Wilson, said Monday. ``She is absolutely the first 
choice.'' Wilson said Monday he ``can't wait very long'' to announce 
whom he would appoint, ``but it can wait a little while, more out 
of respect.'' Mrs. Carnahan has never run for office. She made no 
public comment about whether she would accept an appointment, and 
Carnahan campaign spokesman Tony Wyche said: ``Nothing has been discussed 
at that level yet, and definitely there has been no decision. Wilson, 
in an AP interview, declined to say whether he would name Mrs. Carnahan 
to the seat should her husband get more votes than Ashcroft, a first-term 
Republican senator who also was Missouri's governor from 1984 to 1992. 
However, he praised Mrs. Carnahan for her ``simply amazing'' public 
composure and dignity since her husband's death, including leading 
the memorial procession behind his casket on Friday during ceremonies 
that were broadcast statewide. ``It seems to me, with her display 
of grace under pressure, that Jean Carnahan can will herself to do 
whatever needs to be done to help people,'' Wilson said. On Sunday, 
in her first public comments since the crash, Mrs. Carnahan thanked 
Missourians for their prayers and hugs. ``I have been encircled by 
thousands,'' she said in a eulogy for Sifford. With her phrase, ``don't 
let the fire go out,'' politicians and analysts said they heard a 
tasteful slogan for the closing stretch of what had been a statistically 
even race. ``Her standing in for her husband could be as poignant 
and powerful as any political image ever shown, and it has to leave 
Ashcroft wondering how to respond, and it would be virtually impossible 
to respond,'' said Rick Hardy, a political science professor at the 
University of Missouri-Columbia. During a St. Louis appearance Monday, 
Ashcroft declined comment about the campaign. But John Hancock, executive 
director of the Missouri Republican Party, said: ``I assume the active 
Senate race is over, tragically over. I can't conceive of anybody 
at this point politicizing it. There is nothing the Republican Party 
can do, proactively, one way or the other. The ball is clearly not 
in our court.''