The results in Sunday's presidential election were delayed without 
explanation Monday, and Ivoirians expressed fears that the military 
government was trying to manipulate the outcome. After early results 
Monday morning showed the junta leader, Gen. Robert Guei, trailing 
his main opponent by 11 percentage points, soldiers took over the 
offices of the National Electoral Commission. Later Monday evening, 
a newscaster on state television said the commission had no announcement 
to make. Final results were expected Tuesday. According to the official 
partial results announced before the blackout, Guei won 40 percent 
of the ballots counted, about 8 percent of total cast. But his main 
rival, Laurent Gbagbo, a longtime opposition leader and the leader 
of the smallest of Ivory Coast's three main parties, had 51 percent. 
A candidate would have to receive more than 50 percent of the votes 
to avoid a runoff. But at a news conference Monday morning, Gbagbo 
said he had won nearly 62 percent of the votes, compared with 26 percent 
for Guei. He based his announcement on his party's tallies from half 
of the 16,317 voting booths. ``No accident is now possible,'' said 
Gbagbo, who stopped short of declaring victory but sounded confident 
enough that hundreds of supporters began cheering and dancing in celebration. 
Nearby, at Guei's headquarters, the mood was subdued and there were 
only a few supporters when members of the military government held 
a news conference in the afternoon. The military government's spokesman, 
Capt. Henri Sama, said: ``We will win and we will win decisively. 
To our supporters, they can go on the streets to celebrate as well. 
We are confident.'' Sama criticized Gbagbo for announcing his preliminary 
results, saying, ``The only results that count are those of the National 
Electoral Commission.'' By then, however, the commission had ceased 
making announcements. At 5 p.m., the president of the commission, 
Honore Guie, said on television that a ``pause'' was necessary because 
results had stopped arriving from outside the cities. ``There was 
a rumor that I had been arrested,'' he said, ``but I am here and the 
results will resume at 7 p.m.'' But by late Monday evening, no further 
results had been announced. The delays marred what appeared to have 
been well-organized and fair voting on Sunday, based on the scene 
at voting booths and the assessments of diplomats. But according to 
official figures, turnout reached only about a third of the registered 
5.5 million voters. Early this month, a court controlled by Guei ruled 
that the candidates of the country's two main parties, the Democratic 
Party of Ivory Coast and the Rally of the Republicans, were not qualified 
to run for president. That left Gbagbo as the general's only credible 
opponent. Protesting the court's verdict, the United States and the 
European Union announced they would not help finance the vote or send 
observers. The two major parties _ which together garnered 75 percent 
of the votes in the legislative election in 1995 _ called for a boycott. 
And the nation's largest Islamic organization told Muslims not to 
vote because the court had disqualified all candidates from the Muslim 
north, leaving five Christian southerners to contest for the presidency 
of a country that is 40 percent Muslim. On a continent undermined 
by political instability and ethnic divisions, Ivory Coast had long 
been a shining exception. For more than three decades after independence 
from France in 1960, the country was governed by the Democratic Party 
under Felix Houphouet-Boigny. He had little patience for political 
opposition but used close ties with France to turn Ivory Coast into 
the richest French-speaking African country. But his clumsy successor, 
Henri Konan Bedie, fomented an ethnocentric campaign aimed at separating 
true Ivoirians from so-called outsiders. Guei overthrew Bedie last 
December in the country's first coup.