THE SENATE: DRAFTING A GOVERNOR'S WIDOW At the time of his death in 
a plane crash last week, Gov. Mel Carnahan of Missouri, a Democrat, 
was making a strong run in his effort to unseat Sen. John Ashcroft, 
a Republican. So what happens next, given that Carnahan's death occurred 
after the deadline for putting a new name on the ballot? The race 
is still on. If Ashcroft wins, he wins. If Carnahan wins, the state's 
new governor, Roger B. Wilson, who was the lieutenant governor, will 
name someone to serve. Wilson is a Democrat. And he has come under 
considerable pressure from the state's Democratic leaders to promise 
to appoint Carnahan's widow, Jean, should Carnahan win. The thinking 
seems to be that the prospect of Mrs. Carnahan continuing her husband's 
work would help to carry the party to victory. Wilson has scheduled 
a news conference for Tuesday morning to address the issue. As for 
Mrs. Carnahan, she has given no indication whether she is interested 
in serving in the Senate. THE VOTERS: MUSLIM GROUPS BACK GORE By some 
estimates, there may be as many as 6 million Muslims in the United 
States, a relatively small population in a country of some 275 million 
people. But in a close presidential race, a small vote can loom large, 
especially when, as in the case of the Muslim vote, it is concentrated 
in key states like California, Michigan, Virginia and New York. Monday, 
an American Muslim political action committee, representing four Muslim 
organizations, endorsed Gov. George W. Bush, saying he had been accessible 
to Muslim organizations and had showed himself responsive to their 
concerns over sensitive issues like deportation. The PAC is a branch 
of the two-year-old American Muslim Political Coordinating Council, 
made up of the American Muslim Alliance, American Muslim Council, 
the Council on American-Islamic Affairs and the Muslim Public Affairs 
Council. Aly Abuzaakouk, the Coordinating Council's executive director, 
said Bush had met with American Muslim leaders last March in Austin, 
Texas, and in general had been ``more responsive to us than the Al 
Gore campaign.'' THE STATES: EMBATTLED TEXAS OFFICIAL RESIGNS The 
Texas commissioner of health, Dr. William R. Archer III, whose comments 
on race, cultural attitudes and health insurance have embarrassed 
his boss, George W. Bush, resigned Monday. The move came less than 
a week after he was placed on leave after statements about race were 
secretly recorded by a black female employee who had been fired. She 
filed a discrimination complaint. Archer's tongue also got him into 
trouble last spring, when he played down the importance of health 
insurance and blamed the state's high teen-age pregnancy rate on the 
cultural attitudes of Hispanics. Archer also had come under criticism 
for his management of the agency. TRAVEL LOG: THE NUMBERS Only two 
weeks left in the campaign now, and the pace is picking up, with both 
candidates fielding teams of surrogates (senators, governors and the 
like) to help. The stats from Monday: Length of official day: Gore, 
12 hours; Bush, 11 hours States visited: Gore, 4; Bush, 3 Cities/towns 
visited: Gore, 4 (Portland, Ore.; Everett, Wash.; Spokane, Wash., 
and Little Rock, Ark.); Bush, 3 (Kansas City, Mo.; Des Moines, Iowa, 
and Milwaukee) Official Events: Gore, 3; Bush, 3 Plane Boardings: 
Gore, 3; Bush, 3 Miles traveled: Gore, 1,964; Bush, 1,215 Surrogates 
at work: Gore, 19 Democratic senators; Bush, seven groups of Republican 
governors Main message: Gore, prosperity is on the ballot; Bush, reforming 
and saving Social Security TODAY'S SCHEDULES PAT BUCHANAN: Anchorage, 
Alaska, and Seattle GEORGE W. BUSH: Arlington Heights, Ill.; Knoxville, 
Tenn., and Jacksonville, Fla. AL GORE: Little Rock, Ark., Shreveport, 
La., and Nashville, Tenn. RALPH NADER: Oakland, Calif., and Washington, 
D.C.