Missouri's new governor has decided to appoint the widow of Mel Carnahan 
as senator if she wants it and the late governor receives more votes 
than Sen. John Ashcroft in the Nov. 7 election. Two weeks before Election 
Day, Gov. Roger Wilson called a news conference Tuesday to announce 
that Mrs. Carnahan was his choice to fill the Senate vacancy that 
would occur under such a scenario, sources familiar with Wilson's 
thinking told the AP. ``Roger has settled on Jean, and the only question 
is whether she would accept,'' one source said. The Kansas City Star, 
citing unidentified party sources, also reported Tuesday that Wilson 
would ask Mrs. Carnahan to take the post. Mrs. Carnahan hadn't been 
formally approached by Wilson, at least as of late Monday. ``She has 
not been asked,'' the late governor's spokesman Tony Wyche said. Mrs. 
Carnahan was not expected to participate in the news conference, which 
Wilson scheduled ``discuss matters involving the U.S. Senate race.'' 
Mrs. Carnahan's 66-year-old husband, the Democratic governor who was 
challenging Republican Ashcroft for the Senate seat; their 44-year-old 
son, Roger; and an aide, Chris Sifford, 37, were killed Oct. 16 when 
their twin-engine plane crashed en route to a campaign stop. Officials 
have said it was legally too late to remove Mel Carnahan's name from 
the ballot. The tight and sometimes bitter battle with Ashcroft, a 
Senate freshman and himself a former governor, was seen as a key race 
in the Democrats' effort to retake control of the Senate. Mrs. Carnahan 
has not publicly discussed whether she would be available as a surrogate 
for her husband if Carnahan outpolls Ashcroft. But she heightened 
speculation while delivering a eulogy on Sunday for Sifford, urging 
mourners: ``Don't let the fire go out.'' In an interview with the 
AP on Monday, Wilson praised Mrs. Carnahan for her public composure 
since her husband's death, saying that ``with her display of grace 
under pressure, that Jean Carnahan can will herself to do whatever 
needs to be done to help people.'' If Carnahan receives more votes 
than Ashcroft, the interim senator would be appointed by Wilson after 
Ashcroft's term ends Jan. 3. The person would serve until Missouri's 
next general election in November 2002. During a St. Louis appearance 
Monday, Ashcroft declined to comment about the campaign or about whom 
Wilson might appoint. Other Democrats said Mrs. Carnahan should lead 
the ticket to energize party workers still devastated about her husband's 
death. ``Everyone is waiting for Mrs. Carnahan to say yes or no. It's 
her call,'' said veteran state Sen. James Mathewson, D-Sedalia and 
a close ally of Wilson. ``She is absolutely the first choice.'' During 
a St. Louis appearance Monday, Ashcroft declined to comment about 
the campaign. Jean Carnahan, 66, has never held public office or run 
for office, though she has campaigned for her husband. She has a degree 
in business and public administration from George Washington University. 
Three widows of congressmen are currently members of the U.S. House: 
Mary Bono, R-Calif., Lois Capps, D-Calif., and Jo Ann Emerson, R-Mo. 
All three first won special elections to succeed their husbands, and 
all three won re-election in 1998.