Slobodan Milosevic's police entered a major coal mine Wednesday to 
break up the largest of the nationwide strikes aimed at ousting the 
Yugoslav president, an independent news agency said. Truckloads of 
police and soldiers went into the Kolubara mine complex south of Belgrade 
after the government said the five-day strike threatened electricity 
supplies, the independent Beta news agency said. A striker who answered 
the telephone at the facility, which employs 7,000 workers, said miners 
were refusing to leave the compound and so far there had been no clashes 
or arrests. He refused to give his name. Beta quoted a strike leader 
Predgrag Stefanovic as appealing to residents of nearby towns ``to 
come and help us.'' The action came one day after the Milosevic government 
threatened ``special measures'' against leaders of strikes and road 
blockades, which were launched this week to force the Yugoslav president 
to concede defeat to challenger Vojislav Kostunica in the Sept. 24 
election. On Tuesday, Belgrade's prosecutor issued arrest orders for 
13 opposition leaders involved in organizing a walkout at the Kolubara 
coal mine _ the largest of hundreds of work stoppages nationwide. 
Milosevic concedes that Kostunica outpolled him in the five-candidate 
race but fell short of an absolute majority. A run-off is set for 
Sunday but the opposition has called for a boycott. Earlier, police 
arrested several truck drivers blocking roads in Milosevic's hometown, 
Pozarevac, about 30 miles southeast of Belgrade. Beta said the government 
had brought in strikebreakers from Kosovo, where many miners are out 
of work since NATO and the United Nations took over the province last 
year. The opposition has accused Milosevic of massive fraud in the 
election and on Wednesday sought to prove the allegations before Yugoslavia's 
Constitutional Court. The tribunal met in emergency session to hear 
claims by the 18-party opposition coalition that Milosevic's cronies 
manipulated election results by using a sophisticated software program. 
Opposition leaders said they had obtained a copy of the program and 
would use it to illustrate how the vote was rigged to favor Milosevic's 
candidacy. But the court is full of Milosevic loyalists and has rendered 
a number of controversial verdicts. Information Minister Goran Matic 
claimed the opposition ``committed electoral fraud'' and was now trying 
to provoke violence by ``discrediting and denying the validity of 
the result.'' With dozens of road blocks in place for the third day 
as part of the opposition's campaign of anti-Milosevic civil disobedience, 
police attempted to clear roads in some areas but refrained from using 
force, Beta reported. The opposition planned a rally in Belgrade for 
Thursday billed as a final push to drive Milosevic from power. There 
were signs that Milosevic's control over the media, until now the 
principal propaganda pillar of his regime, was fraying. The main state-run 
daily in the northern province of Vojvodina declared Wednesday that 
its editorial policy would switch from following the government line 
to objectively reporting on events. Its Wednesday edition carried 
numerous reports on opposition activities. Previously, it had reported 
on the opposition only to criticize them as lackeys of the West. In 
Belgrade, where the civil disobedience campaign has been less noticeable 
than in other cities, more people appeared to be joining the opposition 
protests. Hundreds of stores were closed and city bus drivers and 
garbage collectors stayed off the job, leaving overflowing trash containers 
scattered in the streets. The postal service announced a warning strike 
for later in the day, and by noon, the city core was effectively put 
off limits to cars and other vehicles by thousands of pedestrians 
roaming the streets and blocking traffic. In an interview published 
in Moscow's Komersant daily, Kostunica said he believed Milosevic 
was preparing to resort to force. ``He experiences no moral dilemma 
or torments of the soul about that,'' Kostunica said in comments published 
Wednesday. ``However ... it is clear that he does not have enough 
force at present.'' The student-run Otpor, or Resistance, opposition 
movement demanded that Kostunica be declared the electoral winner, 
that he assume command of the armed forces and start naming ambassadors 
to Western countries that have recognized his victory. ``We demand 
that Kostunica take up his post as president by Thursday in accordance 
with the will of the voters,'' the Otpor statement said.