Security forces fired on demonstrators marching toward presidential 
offices Tuesday, after the junta leader declared himself the winner 
of controversial presidential elections. At least one person was killed. 
The crowd, which appeared to number at least 2,000, repeatedly regrouped 
at the scene, in downtown Abidjan a few blocks from the offices, after 
being dispersed by soldiers and military police firing machine guns 
and tear gas. Following a burst of gunfire, the body of a demonstrator 
lay in the street as clouds of tear gas wafted a part of the city 
that had been empty just moments before. Witnesses said at least four 
others were injured. The violence in Abidjan, the commercial capital 
of this West African country, came hours after junta leader Gen. Robert 
Guei dissolved the commission overseeing Sunday's presidential elections 
and declared himself the winner. The announcement set off opposition 
demonstrations that sent thousands swarming into the streets of Abidjan 
and other cities. The controversial vote was to decide the future 
of Ivory Coast, the world's largest cocoa producer, which saw its 
reputation as a bastion of regional calm destroyed in a December coup 
d'etat that brought Guei to power. Earlier Tuesday, security forces 
had fired weapons into the air as protesters converged in a number 
of Abidjan neighborhoods, including a mass of at least 2,000 demonstrators 
who chanted ``Guei step down!'' and tried to march into downtown. 
That group, escorted by a handful of military police who appeared 
to be supporting them, was also turned back by soldiers firing into 
the air. Furious over Guei's announcement, opposition leader Laurent 
Gbagbo also declared himself president and called on his supporters 
to protest the junta's move. ``I cannot let a country be dragged into 
the mud as Guei would like it,'' he told a crowd of cheering supporters 
at his campaign headquarters, in an Abidjan suburb. ``I ask that in 
all the cities of Ivory Coast and in every neighborhood Ivorians take 
to the streets.'' His supporters, though, had already begun to rally, 
moving into the streets within minutes of the announcement. Thousands, 
many wearing leaves as a sign of protest and tearing down any Guei 
campaign poster they came across, crowded neighborhoods across the 
city, setting up roadblocks of furniture, garbage and rocks. Clouds 
of black smoke could be seen rising in some areas. Daniel Bamba Sheik, 
director-general of the Interior Ministry's territorial administration 
department said Guei took 52.72 percent of last Sunday's vote against 
41.02 for opposition leader Laurent Gbagbo. Bamba Sheik blamed massive 
fraud and the inability of electoral officials for the decision to 
disband the commission overseeing the vote. ``This commission, visibly 
lacking in experience ... instituted operational procedures for tabulating 
results that made the results unacceptable, causing, as was observed, 
mistakes and confusion,'' he said. He accused several parties, including 
Gbagbo's Ivorian Popular Front, of bussing voters from Abidjan to 
villages in the interior in order to vote twice. Bamba Sheik claimed 
that only 3.6 million voters had been registered for the vote, down 
from the 5.5 million announced by the commission prior to the ballot. 
Some 153,000 votes were nullified, he added. Electoral commission 
officials were not immediately available for comment and those seen 
earlier in the day were all escorted by armed security personnel and 
not allowed to talk to journalists. The vote was controversial from 
the beginning. The nation's two largest political parties boycotted 
the ballot after their leaders were barred from running by the Supreme 
Court. Gbagbo was the only political heavyweight allowed to run against 
the junta leader. Preliminary results released around midday Monday 
_ reflecting just a fraction of the vote _ showed Gbagbo with an edge 
over Guei. Since then, however, vote counting appeared to have stopped, 
European Union officials said speaking on condition of anonymity. 
A Gbagbo representative earlier asked Guei to accept defeat, repeating 
party claims that its own provisional count showed Gbagbo winning 
more than 60 percent of the vote. ``In developed countries, the loser 
recognizes his defeat ... even when the official results are not completely 
available,'' Gbagbo's campaign manager, Afi Nguessan, said. In an 
interview broadcast on Europe 1 radio, Gbagbo urged Guei to ``hand 
over power'' and said army soldiers were also advising the military 
ruler to do so. However, some soldiers, speaking on condition of anonymity, 
said Guei had given unspecified orders to troops late Monday to ``calm 
the population.'' Before vote counting was interrupted Monday, Gbagbo 
had 51.35 percent of the 126,683 ballots counted, compared to 40.40 
percent for Guei, national electoral commission president Honore Guie 
said Monday. The preliminary figures accounted for a tiny fraction 
of the total possible vote from about 5.5 million registered voters. 
Gbagbo's party claimed its own count showed it leading with 61 percent 
to 25 percent for Guei with 1.1 million votes counted. On Monday, 
soldiers deployed throughout Abidjan after groups of jubilant Gbagbo 
(pronounced BAHG-bo) supporters paraded through the streets in parts 
of Abidjan and other cities. Soldiers used tear gas to break up a 
rally of Gbagbo demonstrators in the Riviera suburb. The United Nations, 
the Organization of African Unity, the European Union and countries 
such as the United States and Canada withdrew election observers or 
funding, saying the exclusion of major opponents made a free and fair 
election impossible.