In the cold and wind whipped waters of the Barents Sea, divers are 
trying to raise the bodies of 118 sailors from the wrecked Kursk. 
The nuclear submarine went down two months ago after two explosions 
ripped through it. Now Russian and Norwegian divers are making a man 
sized hole in the hull. That's the first step in bringing the remains 
of the crewmembers back to shore. The BBC's Steve Rosenberg is in 
Murmosk. Steve Rosenberg, where are they now in this salvage operation? 
How is it coming along? Well, the international team of deep-sea divers 
has made good progress today. Yesterday, if you remember, the weather 
was extremely bad. Storms, very high waves, very difficult conditions 
for the divers to work in. But the storm has cleared today and from 
this morning the divers have been down at the bottom of the Barents 
Sea, working on cutting out this hole in the inner hull of the Kursk. 
What happens once they do finish? Do they actually enter the submarine? 
How do they go about extracting the bodies of the submariners? Well, 
they won't enter straight away. First of all they have to make sure 
there are no jagged edges around this hole, because one tear of the 
protective suits of the divers could prove fatal. It is a very dangerous 
operation. Then they may send in a television camera, a remote controled 
television camera to have a look around and see what the conditions 
are like. And then, based upon the weather conditions, a decision 
will be made whether to go inside and begin the search for bodies. 
The weather is so vital because if the weather is stormy, if the winds 
are strong, then it makes it extremely dangerous for the Russian divers 
who will be going inside. The fear is that the umbilical cord linking 
the divers suits could get tangled, could get damaged, in that order 
of course, prove fatal. Are there also concerns regarding disrupting 
the nuclear fuel aboard the submarine? Are there any kind of environmental 
concerns? The Russian officials say there are no environmental concerns 
at the moment. A couple of days ago, a small hole was made in the 
inner hull of the Kursk and water samples were taken. They were tested 
and the results came back very encouraging. There was no hint of radiation 
or leaking fuel, anything like that. So I think officials are confident 
that it would be safe to go inside. But having said that, once inside 
there are a number of dangers, which would face the Russian divers. 
First of all, visibility will be very very low, it's going to be bitterly 
cold, and there is going to be enormous danger from jagged pieces 
of metal which could be swimming around in the submarine. Given the 
fact that there are so many dangers and that these divers are risking 
their own lives, I wonder if there is consideration given to the fact 
that this may not be really worth it. I mean have some suggested just 
leaving the sailors' bodies there and respecting the site as a grave? 
Yes, I have to say that more and more people in Russia are suggesting 
that this operation is not worth risking the lives of more people, 
risking the lives of the deep-sea divers. And in fact, many of the 
relatives of the crewmembers who died in this tragedy, they too are 
saying that the operation should be cancelled. Today many of the relatives 
met the Chief of the Russian Navy and suggested the same thing. But 
President Putin gave his word that the operation would go ahead, and 
it does seem as if the operation is going to continue. Are there any 
new explanations coming down as to what caused this disaster in the 
first place? Well, today the Chief of the Russian Navy, Vladimir Kuroyedov, 
he actually said he was eighty percent sure that the Kursk had collided 
with a submarine. I think so there has been no other official word, 
final word about what actually caused this tragedy. There is a government 
commission which was set up to investigate the causes of the tragedy, 
and they whittled out a number of possible causes to three. They have 
said that it was either a collision with a foreign submarine, it could 
have been a collision with a World War II mine, or it could have been 
a torpedo on board misfiring. They simply didn't know. But as I say, 
Admiral Koryerov has said he does believe it was a collision with 
a submarine. And they're not sure now whether it was a foreign submarine 
or a Russian one? The Chief of the Russian Navy didn't actually specify 
a foreign submarine, but certainly the Russian government has been 
suggesting all along that a foreign submarine was involved. The BBC's 
Steve Rosenberg speaking to us from Mermosk. Steve Rosenberg, thank 
you for the update. You're welcome.