This is The World, a co-production of the BBC World Service, PRI and 
WGBH in Boston. I'm Lisa Mullins. Gunfire echoed through the West 
African city of Abijan today. Soldiers in the commercial capital of 
Ivory Coast fired the shots to disperse mass protest against the country's 
military rulers. The turmoil was sparked by a government announcement 
today, declaring that Hunter leader General Rober Gay was the winner 
of Sunday's presidential elections. Opposition leader Loron Gbagbo 
responded by claiming that he is the real winner and urged his followers 
to take to the streets. Afibia Chrisdorton who reports for allafrica.com 
is in Abijan. She says that although there appear to be no casualties, 
today's clashes between the protestors and the military are unprecedented 
in Ivory Coast history. If you look down on to the streets of the 
central business district of Abijan plateau, you will see hundreds 
of rubber flip-flop and shoes of people who were obviously fleeing 
the soldiers. And I have to tell you, just before I came on air we 
were looking down at at least ten women who were completely nude, 
being stripped and beaten by the military, the sort of thing that 
Ivorians are simply not going to accept, which is why Laurent Gbagbo 
had said that his supporters must protest against what they say is 
a fraudulent and stolen election. When you say that the Ivorian people 
will not stand for this, I wonder if you can tell us what they can 
do about it. I mean, I'm thinking of the comparison to Yugoslavia 
which, of course, just a few weeks ago there was a very similar situation 
when there was a fraudulent election, the ruling party declared itself 
the winner, and then the Opposition supporters took to the streets. 
What would it take, Afibia, for the Ivory Coast leader to step down? 
It's absolutely appropriate what you said Lisa, because in his last 
rally Laurent Gbagbo said that if there was any sort of rigging or 
fraud, he wanted to see a Serbia scenario. He said, "Look what happened 
to Milosevic, we want to see the same thing happen here". But let 
me tell you that Ivorians are not used to the military being in control. 
It's only ten months since there has been a military government here. 
For forty years there has not been a soldier in control. Ivorians 
aren't used to this. So everything is new to them. Will they come 
on to the streets to demonstrate? I think the young people will. But 
I think there are some people who are scared. Today they have heard 
gunfire like they've never heard before in this city except in December 
when the military took over and they have heard even mortar fire which 
most people would associate with a coup-de-tour, not with a military 
leader saying he has been elected democratically. What the Ivorians, 
how far the Ivorians are prepared to go to, I think we'll only know 
in the coming days. Is there evidence that he has indeed stolen the 
election and is General Gay speaking for himself at all? Lisa, let 
me just go back a few hours. Last night we were told on television, 
everything is calm, everything will recommence tomorrow. We assumed 
that would be vote counting. When the announcement of General Gay's 
apparent victory at the polls was made, we were also told that electoral 
commission, what it had been doing, it's voting , it's counting, it's 
collation of votes were absolutely unusable and that they had done 
it in total disorder. So suddenly the very body that yesterday the 
Information Minister was saying was the only legitimate body that 
could give election results, has suddenly been absolutely thrashed 
by the same military government that said we must wait for them to 
give the results. Speaking to us from the commercial capital of Ivory 
Coast , Abijan, Afibia Chrisdorton, reporter for allafrica.com. Thankyou, 
Afibia for the update. Thankyou, Lisa.