American naval officials said on Tuesday that the destroyer Cole, 
at the moment of the bombing that killed 17 sailors, was at a medium-level 
alert, no different from that routinely in force in the Persian Gulf, 
despite the violence in Israel and a general warning of a possible 
terrorist attack on an American warship. The alert level meant there 
were only a handful of sailors with rifles mounting a watch on deck 
as the Cole entered Aden harbor, the officials said. There were no 
sailors manning the ship's heavy machine guns or cannons, and no American 
or Yemeni boats guarding the waters around the billion-dollar ship 
as a flotilla of service boats moved in to assist with mooring and 
refueling, they added. The Navy's account, given at a briefing here 
on Tuesday, was the most detailed so far of the security arrangements 
in effect on Oct. 12 when two men in a small fiberglass boat slid 
alongside the Cole and detonated a cargo of high explosives that blew 
a 40-by-40-foot hole in the hull. American officials have said the 
FBI has a ``working theory'' that the attack was carried out by Islamic 
militants who have repeatedly attacked American targets as part of 
a holy war against the United States, possibly inspired or directed 
by Osama bin Laden, an exiled Saudi financier who tops the FBI's most-wanted 
list. In a fresh revelation on Tuesday, Yemeni security officials 
confirmed that they had found a house overlooking the Aden harbor 
from which the conspirators appeared to have monitored previous Navy 
ships entering Aden for refueling and possibly watched and directed 
the attack. The Yemenis said investigators had found a pair of binoculars 
in the house, and that with these, conspirators would have been able 
to keep a moment-by-moment watch on the area where the Cole was moored. 
The officials said the house, at least the fifth one in the Aden area 
now identified by investigators as having been used in the attack, 
was empty when it was raided last weekend. FBI experts are examining 
it, using fingerprinting, DNA tests and other evidence-gathering techniques. 
The latest information appeared likely to reinforce the FBI's conclusion 
that the attack involved more than the two suicide bombers, that they 
spent weeks and possibly months preparing the attack, and that they 
were amply financed and technically sophisticated. The details disclosed 
on Tuesday about the alert level on the Cole added significantly to 
what the Navy had previously disclosed. The risk status in effect, 
known as Bravo, is the second lowest on an ascending scale; the lowest 
level is Alpha, and the scale ascends through Bravo, Charlie and Delta. 
From the outset, Navy officials had said that the Cole was at Bravo 
level. But the officer commanding the Navy-led force assisting the 
investigation, Rear Adm. Mark Fitzgerald, had first described this 
as the second-highest risk status, instead of the second lowest. Because 
Fitzgerald made this observation while saying any American ship in 
the region knew it was operating in ``a dangerous area,'' this seems 
to have been an inadvertent slip made under the pressure of dealing 
with the attack's aftermath. On Tuesday, Cmdr. Hal Pittman, a spokesman 
for the Fifth Fleet, which directs operations in the Persian Gulf 
area, attempted to place the facts surrounding the Cole attack in 
a wider perspective, rather than revising the earlier version. From 
the facts given by Pittman and what is now suspected about how the 
attack was carried out, it is still not clear that a higher alert 
level would have foiled the attack. Indeed, a senior Pentagon official 
said a higher security level might not have prevented the bombing 
because the little skiff would not have been perceived as a threat. 
In any alert status of Bravo or higher, the Cole's guards would have 
been authorized to open fire if it was clear an attack was under way. 
The Pentagon official said the Cole's captain reported that the crew 
believed the skiff was part of the flotilla of harbor boats helping 
the destroyer moor. ``In order to exercise deadly force, you have 
to perceive a deadly threat,'' the official said. ``The questions 
of whether they were right not to have perceived it as a threat will 
all be part of the investigation.'' On Tuesday the Cole, listing and 
low in the water, was on a Delta alert, and looking at it from shore 
suggested that this made it much less vulnerable than when it was 
attacked. Under awnings erected on the bow and tern, crew members 
were in position near machine guns and cannons, and a large inflatable 
picket boat, about 60 feet long and carrying two machine guns of its 
own, patrolled with about 15 sailors in helmets and flak jackets, 
back and forth along the Cole's port flank about 300 yards of the 
ship. Delta alerts are currently in effect for American troops and 
officials in Bahrain and Qatar, in the Persian Gulf, because of threats 
of another attack, according to Adm. Craig Quigley, a Pentagon spokesman. 
Navy officials have said they did not cancel the Cole's refueling 
stop in Aden because there had been no ``credible and specific'' threat 
to the vessel of the kind necessary to enforce a Delta alert. The 
ship's fuel tanks were still 50 percent full. The Navy has also played 
down the significance of two stark warnings that military and intelligence 
officials heard before the attack here. The first, on Sept. 22, came 
in a videotape apparently made by bin Laden in his hideout in Afghanistan 
and delivered in an unmarked envelope to Al Jazera Television in Qatar, 
an Arabic satellite station that bin Laden has chosen before as a 
conduit. On the tape bin Laden, wearing a dagger in his belt in a 
tribal tradition widely favored in Yemen, where his family originated, 
vowed to free an Egyptian Islamic leader, Sheik Omar Abdul Rahman, 
who was jailed for life after being convicted in New York of ordering 
the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. Bin Laden, accompanied 
by two Egyptian militants who are thought to be among his closest 
aides and by Assad Allah, Rahman's son, vowed new attacks on the United 
States to achieve the sheik's release. ``Enough of words!'' he said. 
``It is time to take action against this iniquitous and faithless 
force that has spread troops through Egypt, Yemen and Saudi Arabia.'' 
Assad Allah could be heard saying ''Forward to shed blood!'' three 
times. Officials in Washington have said another warning, of an impending 
Islamic attack on an American warship, was also received in the weeks 
before the Cole attack, but that risk levels were not raised because 
the warning did not say what kind of ship would be hit, where or when. 
With more than 300 ships around the globe, Navy officials here have 
said, this was too unspecific to have served as a basis for changing 
threat levels in the Persian Gulf area.