Security forces fired on unarmed demonstrators in Ivory Coast on Tuesday, 
as thousands took to the streets after the military junta leader declared 
himself the winner of presidential elections intended to restore civilian 
rule. At least one person was killed. Waves of demonstrators wore 
blackened faces and leaves in their hair as signs of protest. They 
marched through otherwise deserted downtown Abidjan streets toward 
barricaded government offices, retreating when soldiers and military 
police fired machine guns and tear gas at them, then regrouping and 
surging forward again. The body of one demonstrator lay on the ground 
after a burst of gunfire as tear gas wafted over the streets. Witnesses 
said at least five others were injured. The clashes came hours after 
junta leader Gen. Robert Guei dissolved the commission overseeing 
Sunday's presidential elections _ in which he was a candidate _ and 
declared himself the winner. Furious over Guei's announcement, opposition 
leader Laurent Gbagbo also declared himself president and called on 
his supporters to protest the junta's move. ``I cannot let a country 
be dragged into the mud as Guei would like it,'' he told a crowd of 
cheering supporters at his campaign headquarters in an Abidjan suburb. 
``I ask that in all the cities of Ivory Coast and in every neighborhood 
Ivorians take to the streets.'' His supporters, though, had already 
begun to rally, swarming into the streets of Abidjan and other cities 
within minutes of the junta announcement and tearing down any Guei 
campaign poster they came across. Tens of thousands of protesters 
set up roadblocks of furniture, rocks and burning tires in Abidjan's 
Riviera suburb as plumes of black smoke streaked across the sky. Soldiers 
in riot gear fired tear gas at the crowds, beating some youths with 
chains and iron bars. Two rioters were stripped naked and thrown into 
the back of a military jeep. On the outskirts of downtown, security 
forces fired weapons into the air to disperse at least 2,000 demonstrators 
chanting ``Guei step down!'' That group was escorted by a handful 
of military police who appeared to be supporting them. Thousands of 
Gbagbo's supporters also filled the streets in Guei's home town of 
Gagnoa, in western Ivory Coast, where demonstrators burned and looted 
the home of the junta leaders' local campaign manager and set fire 
to a Mercedes parked outside. ``We're demanding that Guei resign,'' 
said a local official with Gbagbo's Ivorian Popular Front who identified 
himself only as Yapi. ``Our supporters are ready to go head-to-head 
with the soldiers.'' But in Gagnoa, a Gbagbo stronghold, the soldiers 
did not intercede to stop the protests. The junta declared a state 
of emergency and a 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew, in effect until Thursday. 
Daniel Bamba Sheik, a senior Interior Ministry official, blamed massive 
fraud and the inability of electoral officials for the decision to 
disband the commission overseeing Sunday's vote. ``This commission, 
visibly lacking in experience ... instituted operational procedures 
for tabulating results that made the results unacceptable, causing, 
as was observed, mistakes and confusion,'' he said. He accused unidentified 
parties of busing voters from Abidjan to villages in the interior 
in order to vote twice, saying such tactics necessitated the ``adjustment 
of the results to make them conform to the real vote expressed by 
our fellow citizens.'' Bamba Sheik said Guei took 52.72 percent of 
last Sunday's vote against 41.02 for Gbagbo, with three lesser known 
candidates sharing the remaining votes. He also claimed that only 
3.6 million voters had been legally registered for the ballot, down 
from the 5.5 million announced by the commission before the ballot. 
Some 153,000 votes were nullified, he added. Gbagbo, however, declared 
he had 59.58 percent of the vote, compared to 32.91 percent for Guei. 
Neither claim could be independently verified. Electoral commission 
officials were not immediately available for comment, and those seen 
earlier in the day were all escorted by armed security personnel and 
not allowed to talk to journalists. The vote was controversial from 
the beginning. The nation's two largest political parties boycotted 
the ballot after their leaders were barred from running by the Supreme 
Court. Gbagbo (pronounced BAHG-bo) was the only political heavyweight 
allowed to run against the junta leader. Preliminary results released 
by the national electoral commission at midday Monday _ reflecting 
just a fraction of the vote _ showed Gbagbo with an edge over Guei. 
After that, however, vote counting appeared to have stopped, European 
Union observers said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Soon after, 
soldiers deployed throughout Abidjan after groups of jubilant Gbagbo 
supporters paraded through the streets in parts of the city declaring 
that he had won. The United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, 
the European Union and countries such as the United States and Canada 
withdrew election observers or funding before the vote, saying the 
exclusion of major opponents made a free and fair election impossible. 
Guei's move infuriated France, Ivory Coast's former colonial ruler, 
which still keeps hundreds of soldiers based in Abidjan. ``What we 
are seeing is an attempted coup,'' French Foreign Minister Hubert 
Vedrine said Tuesday. ``France will not accept it, the European union 
will not accept it, and there will be consequences.'' He did not elaborate. 
Ivory Coast saw its reputation as a bastion of regional calm destroyed 
in a December coup d'etat that brought Guei to power. The country's 
economy has also been battered by a steep decline in the prices of 
its main exports, coffee and cocoa. The instability has frightened 
Ivorians and foreign investors alike.