A RUMBLING IN CALIFORNIA The presidential race is tightening in California, 
the nation's biggest trove of electoral votes. In a newly released 
poll, Vice President Al Gore's once-formidable lead over Gov. George 
W. Bush has shrunk to just 5 percentage points. The survey, by the 
nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California, conducted in the 
period spanning the second and third debates, found Gore leading 44 
percent to 39 percent among likely voters, down from a nine-point 
lead in September. Gore's support slipped away to the Green Party 
candidate, Ralph Nader, who polled at 6 percent, and to other third-party 
candidates. But Bush's support stayed level, showing that he still 
faces an uphill battle in the Golden State. The poll numbers were 
enough to prompt one Nader supporter, Greg MacArthur of the group 
Citizens for Strategic Voting, to drop plans to run full-page ads 
in California newspapers claiming that a ``vote for Nader is not a 
vote for Bush.'' The group wants to run the ads only in states not 
in play, in hopes of winning enough total votes for Nader to reach 
the 5 percent national threshold needed to qualify the party for matching 
federal campaign funds in 2004. FLIP-FLOP IN WISCONSIN In another 
new poll, this one from Wisconsin, long considered a hotly contested 
state, Gov. George W. Bush has taken a 9-point lead over Vice-President 
Al Gore after trailing him by five points in a survey a month ago. 
The new poll, conducted last week by Harris Interactive of Rochester, 
N.Y., put support for Ralph Nader at 5 percent, up a point from the 
poll released a month earlier. THE CLINTON SHADOW Should President 
Clinton campaign with Vice President Al Gore? ``No'' was the resounding 
answer Monday night from most of a dozen people at a focus group in 
Marlton, N.J. Even voters who were Democrats and had favorable opinions 
of Clinton told the focus-group pollster, Peter Hart, that the president 
should steer clear of the Gore campaign. A Gallup Poll released Tuesday 
affirmed this view. Voters were asked if they would be more likely 
or less likely to vote for Gore if Clinton campaigned with him. Forty 
percent said ``less likely,'' while only 17 percent said ``more likely.'' 
Gov. George W. Bush seems to relish the idea of Clinton appearing 
with Gore. ``If he can't help himself and starts getting out there 
and campaigns against me, the shadow returns,'' Bush said. PRAISE 
FOR GOVERNOR'S WIDOW The new governor of Missouri, Roger Wilson, said 
Tuesday that he would be willing to appoint Jean Carnahan, the widow 
of Gov. Mel Carnahan, as senator should the late governor receive 
more votes than Sen. John Ashcroft in the Nov. 7 election. Carnahan, 
a Democrat, was killed last week in a plane crash while campaigning 
to unseat Ashcroft, a Republican. But voters will find his name still 
on the ballot on Election Day because his death occurred after the 
deadline for inserting substitutes. After the crash, many Missouri 
Democrats began urging Wilson, himself a Democrat and Carnahan's lieutenant 
governor, to state his willingness to appoint Mrs. Carnahan to serve 
should her husband end up winning. Wilson had high praise for Mrs. 
Carnahan but said he was unsure where she stood on serving because 
she had indicated that holding public office ``was certainly not a 
decision she was ready to make at this time.'' THE TRAVEL LOG Here 
are the stats for Tuesday: Length of official day: Gore, 13 hours; 
Bush 14 1/2 hours Official Events: Gore, 4; Bush 3 Cities/towns visited: 
Gore, 3 (Little Rock, Ark.; Shreveport, La.; Nashville, Tenn.) Bush, 
4 (Milwaukee; Arlington Heights, Ill.; Knoxville, Tenn.; Jacksonville, 
Fla.) Planes Boarded: Gore, 3; Bush 3 Miles traveled: Gore, 651; Bush, 
1,122 Surrogates campaigning: Gore, 19 Democratic senators; Bush, 
7 groups of Republican governors Main message: Gore, the economy; 
Bush, taxes WEDNESDAY'S SCHEDULES PATRICK J. BUCHANAN San Francisco 
and Fresno, Calif. GEORGE W. BUSH Daytona Beach, Sanford and Brandon, 
Fla. DICK CHENEY Roswell, N.M., and Baton Rouge, La. AL GORE and JOSEPH 
I. LIEBERMAN Nashville and Jackson, Tenn., and Kansas City, Mo. RALPH 
NADER Washington