American forces in the Persian Gulf region are taking extra precautions 
against threats of terrorist attack, including keeping all Navy 5th 
Fleet ships at sea ``for the foreseeable future'' and raising the 
alert level of U.S. troops in the tiny Gulf states of Bahrain and 
Qatar. The commander in chief of U.S. Central Command, whose area 
of responsibility includes the Gulf, was testifying before Congress 
on Wednesday about the Oct. 12 bombing of the USS Cole in Aden, Yemen. 
The attack, believed to be the work of terrorists, has raised questions 
about the vulnerability of U.S. forces elsewhere in the region. Gen. 
Tommy Franks was to be joined at the Senate Armed Services Committee 
hearing by Walter Slocombe, the undersecretary of defense for policy, 
and Adm. Vern Clark, the chief of naval operations. The Pentagon said 
Tuesday that in response to specific terrorist threats against U.S. 
forces in Bahrain and Qatar, troops based there have been put on the 
highest possible state of alert. The Pentagon would not describe the 
nature of the threats and said it had not determined whether they 
were credible. ``We've got fairly specific information, but the credibility 
is unknown,'' Pentagon spokesman Rear Adm. Craig Quigley said. ``You're 
not quite sure what to make of it, so you do the cautious course of 
action and go up to the higher level'' of alert. The USS Cole attack, 
which killed 17 sailors and wounded 39, also figured in the decision 
to raise the alert level for troops in Bahrain and Qatar, Quigley 
said. U.S. officials have not yet pinpointed the culprit. The threat 
condition in Bahrain and Qatar was raised to ``Delta,'' the highest 
possible level, this past weekend, he said. Immediately after the 
Cole attack, all 23 ships in the Bahrain-based 5th Fleet were sent 
out of port to reduce their vulnerability to terrorist attack. Quigley 
said Tuesday that all ships _ including the aircraft carrier USS Abraham 
Lincoln, two cruisers, five destroyers, two frigates, one attack submarine, 
two mine hunters and various other assault and support ships _ will 
remain at sea ``for the future.'' Some of the 5th Fleet ships are 
in or near Aden to support the Cole, which sustained a huge hole in 
its hull. A destroyer, the USS Paul Hamilton, is escorting a Norwegian-owned 
heavy-lift ship, the Blue Marlin, as it sails from Dubai to Aden. 
The Blue Marlin is due in Aden on Saturday and will immediately begin 
preparing to take on board the 505-foot Cole for its return to the 
United States, Quigley said Tuesday. The two senior retired U.S. military 
officers chosen to head a Pentagon investigation of the security practices 
of the Cole _ Adm. Harold Gehman Jr. and Army Gen. William Crouch 
_ are making plans to travel to Aden. Quigley said they met Monday 
at the Pentagon with Defense Secretary William Cohen, who told them 
their main goal is to improve the military's ability to protect itself 
against terrorist attack. Quigley said the decision to raise alert 
levels at Bahrain and Qatar was based on intelligence reports of ``multiple 
threats'' from ``multiple sources.'' He said the threats were specific, 
but the credibility of the sources was unknown. There are fewer than 
50 U.S. troops in Qatar, who manage a large stock of prepositioned 
Army war-fighting equipment. U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait 
were not included in the heightened state of alert, Quigley said. 
Clinton administration officials have said it is too early to consider 
specific plans for military retaliation for the Cole bombing, but 
more than enough Air Force and Navy warplanes are in the area to carry 
out an attack. After the terrorist bombings of the U.S. embassies 
in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, President Clinton ordered cruise missile 
strikes against suspected terrorist training camps in Afghanistan 
run by alleged terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden and against a 
pharmaceutical plant in Sudan suspected of having links to bin Laden. 
___ On the Net: U.S. Central Command: http://www.centcom.mil/ U.S. 
Navy 5th Fleet: http://www.centcom.mil/components/navcent_page.htm 
The USS Cole: http://www.spear.navy.mil/ships/ddg67/