disputes over the winner of last weekend's presidential election in 
ivory coast sparked violent protests. the government's strongman claimed 
victory, then in the face of massive street demonstrations, he reportedly 
has fled the country. tim lister has more. people power in the ivory 
coast. tens of thousands of demonstrators take to the streets of abidjan 
in protest of general guei's declaration of victory in the presidential 
election. but first soldiers confronted the protesters. several reported 
to have been killed on tuesday after troops opened fire on the crowds. 
but overnight, the mood changed. gunfire there were reports of clashes 
between rival army units, some which deserted the general. early wednesday, 
thousands more protesters took tote treats. some held up signs comparing 
guei to former yugoslav leader slm slm and increasingly, army units 
encouraged the demonstrators. general support was evaporated. there 
were increasing number of troops joining the demonstrators in the 
streets. we saw two armored vehicles full of troops, ai that joined 
to the tens of thousands of people. we saw another convoy of trucks 
of troops do the same thing and hardline member of early this morning, 
captain hen ri, the administer of communications resigned calls to 
arrest general guei. amid the scenes of chaos, there are constricting 
reports of general guei's where abouts. they spoke of him fleeing 
to a neighboring country. but aides say he's still at the presidential 
palace. the situation remains highly volatile. several protesters 
received gunshot wounds during the protest on wednesday. the chief 
opponent laurent gbagbo has been quick to proclaim victory. he paid 
tribute to the demonstrators opposing what he called the general's 
electric for cal coup. is he a veteran politician instrumental in 
bringing multiparty politics to the ivory coast ten years ago. he 
was the only credible opponent to general guei after 19 other candidates 
were banned from standing. those candidates are branding sunday's 
vote imlegitimate. political stability is not yet on the horizon for 
ivory coast. tim lister, cnn.