Junta leader Gen. Robert Guei fled Ivory Coast on Wednesday as his 
security forces turned against him and joined thousands of demonstrators 
backing opposition leader Laurent Gbagbo. Guei, who claimed Tuesday 
to have won Sunday's presidential vote, fled late Wednesday morning 
for Cotonou in nearby Benin, said Guei's former information minister 
Henri Cesar Sama. Airport officials in Cotonou confirmed Guei was 
there. Later Wednesday, Gbagbo was introduced on state television 
as ``president.'' Crowds of protesters exploded in celebration, beating 
drums and dancing in the streets of Abidjan and the western city of 
Gagnoa, a Gbagbo stronghold. Praising his supporters, Gbagbo thanked 
them for protesting Guei's ``electoral coup d'etat.'' ``I pay particular 
homage to those who died in the cause of this,'' he said. ``We will 
give them a funeral befitting their courage.'' Violence had broken 
out before dawn Wednesday in Ivory Coast, once considered an oasis 
of calm in volatile West Africa, after Guei declared himself the winner 
of the presidential election. Gbagbo had a slight lead when vote-counting 
was interrupted Monday. Early Wednesday, disgruntled soldiers attacked 
Guei loyalists at a munitions depot at the main military base in Abidjan, 
soldiers said. At least one mutineer was killed, they said. Later, 
thousands of Gbagbo backers swarmed Abidjan, setting up barricades, 
lighting bonfires and screaming for Guei's resignation. Downtown, 
waves of protesters advanced on soldiers who fired shots into the 
air and beat them down. ``We will fight until Guei is out,'' protesters 
at one junction chanted before fleeing gunfire. At least two people 
were killed and four others injured Wednesday, witnesses said. As 
the protests swelled, soldiers defected to join them, witnesses said. 
Senior junta member Capt. Saint Cyr Djikalou was among those to turn 
against Guei, said Sama, who also defected. ``We are taking control 
as I speak,'' Sama said. Pro-Gbagbo soldiers were trying to persuade 
remaining junta forces to put down their arms, he said. By midday, 
demonstrators had overrun broadcast facilities for state radio and 
television, and thousands more were rallying outside broadcast offices 
downtown, witnesses said. International radio stations found their 
signals blocked. Protests first broke out Tuesday when Guei dismissed 
the electoral commission overseeing the vote and declared himself 
the winner. He appeared on state-run television to thank Ivorians 
who he said ``like one man, in a great wave of dignity and solidarity, 
have just taken me to the head of the country.'' Gbagbo then called 
on his supporters to take to the streets. Faces blackened and hair 
strewn with leaves in traditional symbols of war, his backers marched 
toward the barricaded government offices before being stopped by soldiers 
who fired machine guns and tear gas. Nine people were killed and 13 
badly injured in clashes in Abidjan on Tuesday, said Freedom Neruda, 
an official with Gbagbo's Ivorian Popular Front. The figures could 
not be confirmed, but witnesses said two died in violence Tuesday. 
The junta declared a state of emergency and instituted a nighttime 
curfew until Saturday. Vote counting had gone slowly from the start, 
and public tabulations ended Monday after only a fraction of the votes 
had been counted, with Gbagbo leading. Gbagbo declared victory with 
59.6 percent of the vote, compared to 32.9 percent for Guei. But Tuesday, 
after the elections commission was dissolved, Daniel Bamba Sheik, 
a senior Interior Ministry official, said Guei won in the final tally 
with 52.7 percent of the vote to Gbagbo's 41 percent. Neither claim 
could be independently verified. Guei, who came to power in a December 
coup that was Ivory Coast's first military takeover, had promised 
a return to civilian rule with the elections. But the vote was plagued 
by controversy from the start. The nation's two largest political 
parties boycotted after their leaders were barred from running by 
the Supreme Court. Gbagbo was the only political heavyweight allowed 
to run. Guei's declaration Tuesday infuriated France, Ivory Coast's 
former colonial ruler, which has hundreds of soldiers in Abidjan. 
French President Jacques Chirac condemned Guei's announcement, calling 
it a ``coup attempt and manipulation of election results.'' ``If this 
doesn't end, France and the European Union must decide the consequences 
on their relations with current acting authorities in the Ivory Coast,'' 
presidential spokeswoman Catherine Colonna said, quoting Chirac.