Divers entered the wreck of the Russian submarine Kursk on Wednesday 
for the first time and removed the bodies of three of the 118 crewmen 
entombed there in one of the nation's worst naval disasters. The three 
bodies, placed in special containers, were lifted through a hole cut 
in the submarine's triple-layer hull and brought to the surface Wednesday 
evening, a spokesman for the navy's northern fleet command said. Forecasts 
of worsening weather over the Barents Sea site of the wreck, off Russia's 
northwest coast, left the course of the recovery operation uncertain. 
But the chief of staff of the northern fleet, Admiral Mikhail Motsak, 
indicated that the navy was determined to continue. ``One thing can 
be definitely said: none of the compartments will be sealed or work 
in them wrapped up until they have been examined by our divers in 
detail,'' he told Russia's RTR state television network. The bodies 
apparently were found in one or both of two compartments, numbers 
eight and nine, located farthest from the scene of two explosions 
that ripped open and sank the submarine on Aug. 12. As many as 10 
sailors were stationed in those two compartments, and initial reports 
said no bodies had been found in either. That sparked speculation 
that the crew had survived long enough after the first explosions 
aboard the submarine to rush to other parts of the vessel. Information 
from the wreck site was sketchy Wednesday night, and it was not clear 
whether other bodies might remain in the two compartments. Early in 
the day, one Russian diver had to stop explorations after moving about 
20 feet into the ninth compartment because his air hose proved too 
short. The retrieval of the remains, after five days of underwater 
planning and work, was a technical triumph for an operation that has 
been controversial from the start, and which even naval officials 
had speculated was too dangerous to carry out. President Vladimir 
Putin ordered the bodies retrieved and reburied after suffering a 
public rebuke over what many called the government's ham-handed response 
to the Kursk disaster. The submarine lay underwater for nearly a week 
after its sinking, supposedly too badly damaged for any successful 
rescue, before a team of Norwegian and British divers was allowed 
to approach it. They quickly opened a hatch and determined that everyone 
inside was dead. Divers are working from a drilling platform towed 
to the site by the Norwegian unit of Halliburton Corp., the U.S. oil-drilling 
services company. Halliburton workers are overseeing the operation, 
but only Russian divers are allowed inside the submarine. Divers used 
torches to cut a man-sized hole in the Kursk's hull, one of seven 
holes that must be carved if the recovery operation is to be completed. 
Military planners say they hope to raise the submarine once the recovery 
is complete, a task that would not be feasible until next year's summer 
weather. As the divers worked Wednesday, the commander of the navy, 
Vladimir Kuroyedov, repeated that he was confident that the Kursk 
had been sunk by a collision with a foreign submarine. Russian news 
outlets reported shortly after the disaster that debris from a foreign 
vessel had been spotted near the Kursk, lending credence to that theory. 
But a painstaking search of miles of seabed this fall turned up no 
such debris, and the official in charge of the Kursk recovery and 
investigation, deputy prime minister Ilya Klebanov, said recently 
that the collision theory was no more likely than any other. On Wednesday, 
however, Kuroyedov insisted otherwise. ``I am 80 percent sure it was 
a collision with another submarine,'' he said. ``In two months, I 
will make up the other 20 percent, and I will announce to the world 
who it was.'' Motsak was less direct, saying at a news conference 
Wednesday that it was too early to draw any conclusion about the cause 
of the sinking but that Kuroyedov must have grounds for his suspicions. 
The United States and Britain have both said that none of their ships 
were involved in a collision. Most experts say any impact big enough 
to sink the Kursk, an enormous submarine with a rubberized hull designed 
to withstand even torpedo attack, would have caused such severe damage 
that it would have been nearly impossible for an offender to escape 
undetected.