A Yemeni carpenter now in detention helped two men modify a small 
boat to carry explosives, sources said Wednesday, as investigators 
increasingly turn their attention to the network the bombers used 
to plan and carry out the attack on the USS Cole. The Yemeni sources, 
who spoke on condition of anonymity, said authorities also have detained 
a woman who bought the car they used to haul the boat. The sources 
said charges had not yet been filed in either case. The carpenter 
confessed Tuesday that he had helped two men modify a small boat to 
carry explosives and then helped them load the explosives into the 
boat. It was not immediately clear if the man knew what the two planned 
to do with the bomb-laden boat. He was not named. Officials believe 
two suicide bombers maneuvered a small boat next to the Cole and detonated 
it on Oct. 12, killing 17 U.S. sailors and injuring 39. The carpenter 
had rented the men the Aden house they used to work on the boat, the 
sources said. They said he had been detained since a day after the 
bombing, but only provided details of his involvement Tuesday. The 
two men have not been seen since shortly before the bombing and their 
identities and nationality were unknown. Also Wednesday, security 
officials in Taiz, northwest of Aden, said they had detained a woman 
who confessed the men gave her money to buy a car in her name that 
they used to haul their boat to shore. The woman was identified only 
as a Somali. No other details were immediately available. Yemeni investigators 
have increasingly turned their attention to the network the bombers 
used to plan and carry out the attack. If terrorism is proved, the 
Cole bombing would be the deadliest terrorist attack on the U.S. military 
since 19 Air Force personnel died in a 1996 truck-bomb explosion in 
Saudi Arabia. A U.S. official, meanwhile, slightly altered the account 
of conditions at the time of the bombing. A senior U.S. official said 
on condition of anonymity Wednesday that the Cole was in the third-highest 
state of alert when it entered the port Oct. 12. The Navy had earlier 
said the Cole and its crew were at the second-highest level. Ships 
normally enter Aden at the third-highest level, known as bravo, and 
there was apparently no reason to suspect Oct. 12 would be out of 
the ordinary. At bravo, a number of rifle-toting sailors would have 
been keeping a watchful eye on the area from stations on the ship's 
deck. At the next highest level, a security boat might have accompanied 
the Cole, among other measures. The U.S. Navy five days ago had altered 
its account of events leading to the bombing, saying earlier statements 
were based on initial reports from the ship that were either wrong 
or were misunderstood by Pentagon officials.