good evening. we begin tonight with what u.s. intelligence says was 
a coordinated plan to attack u.s. forces overseas in several places 
in which the "uss cole" was only one target. that's the reason we're 
told today that u.s. forces in the gulf and turkey were put on such 
a high state of alert. abc's john m wethy is at the pentagon with 
the details. some of the strongest intelligence that the u.s. has 
about possible attacks was in bahrain, the small gulf nation that's 
been so cooperative to the u.s. efforts in that area and where the 
u.s. fleet has its headquarters. intelligence sources say what drove 
american forces in bahrain to the highest state of aler was discovy 
of a plan for a suicide bomber to drive a vehicle loaded with explosives 
on to the runway underneath an american aircraft and blow it up. other 
intelligence indicated attacks on the american embassy there and the 
international school, attended by many american children. intelligence 
sources say threats to the american embassy in nearby qatar and to 
the air force base used by american fighter jets in incerlik, turkey, 
may have all been part of a calculated pattern leading back to the 
"uss cole." though american officials insist that they do not yet 
know who was responsible for the attack on the "cole," intelligence 
sources tell abc news that investigators have little doubt that terrorist 
leader osama bin laden was behind it, that he financed it and sent 
one of his top people to organize it. "the u.s. could not yet prove 
it in court," one official said, "but the evidence is compelling." 
the president of yemen seemed to be pointing toward bin laden when 
he told report thaerz all those he detain ready associated with a 
radical islamic group that does training in afghanistan. that's where 
bin laden runs his operation. american officials are concerned about 
what they are seeing, the complexity. they are convinced there are 
other terrorist cells out there waiting to do what they had been planning. 
john m wethy at pentagon this evening.