As columns of black smoke rose across the city, tens of thousands 
of Ivoirians poured into chaotic streets Wednesday and converged on 
the center of Abidjan, proclaiming that they had overthrown Gen. Robert 
Guei one day after he declared himself the winner of the disputed 
presidential election. The whereabouts of Guei, who seized power in 
a Christmas-eve coup last year in one of the few African countries 
never to have had experienced military rule, remained unclear Wednesday 
night. Soldiers and the security forces who turned against the general 
on Wednesday did not find him in the presidential palace here. With 
the popular revolt, a fierce political battle now looms before the 
country. The general's main opponent in Sunday's election, Laurent 
Gbagbo, declared himself president Wednesday, and on state television 
Wednesday night the army chief of staff, Gen. Soumaila Diabakate, 
said the armed forces were now behind Gbagbo. But at least one of 
the main political parties said it would not recognize the results 
and called for a new election. The balloting Sunday, which many Ivoirians 
and Western nations considered deeply flawed, excluded major party 
candidates and was boycotted by large portions of the population. 
Nevertheless, a 10-month-long period of military dictatorship in this 
former French colony appeared to have reached its end, raising the 
possibility that the Ivory Coast might reassume its traditional role 
as an economic and political anchor for the region. In what quickly 
became one of the first times a popular uprising in support of democratic 
process had dislodged a dictator in Africa, residents of the West 
African nation on Wednesday pushed through military barricades erected 
around the city center and the presidential palace. The protesters, 
many marching in flip-flops, were unarmed. Many painted their faces 
white and wore twigs and leaves around their foreheads in a symbolic 
gesture of protection. Soldiers loyal to Guei (pronounced gay) fired 
into the air and then into the crowds. But other soldiers stood, arms 
crossed, in front of a military barracks, and eventually the paramilitary 
gendarmes joined the civilians in opposing the military regime. Most 
soldiers could be seen siding with protesters or remaining neutral. 
Gbagbo's party said 60 people had been killed in violence since Tuesday. 
``The mistake Guei made was to let us watch scenes from Belgrade,'' 
said Alfred Tohouri, a 31-year-old student, referring to the fall 
of Slobodan Milosevic after a contested election in Yugoslavia, as 
he made his way through the thick crowds standing Wednesday morning 
in front of a tank in the city center. ``Ah!'' he added. ``The people 
have stood up like one man. We have been marginalized too long, lied 
to too often.'' Half an hour later, scores of gendarmes wrested away 
the state television building from loyalist soldiers, an event that 
also echoed the Serb revolt. ``The TV station has been freed!'' a 
civilian shouted into his cell phone, near the building, as the crackle 
of automatic gunfire made him duck. A truck filled with heavily armed 
gendarmes rumbled toward the station, cheered on by onlookers who 
reached up to shake their hands. In front of the television building, 
scores of protesters tore down a shack that had been used by the soldiers 
and then danced on its crumpled aluminum roof. ``We are free!'' shouted 
Hermann Karamo, one of the protesters. ``It's freedom for the Ivory 
Coast!'' Then just before 1 p.m., Gbagbo, the opposition leader who 
had been leading in the ballot tally before Guei canceled the vote-counting 
on Tuesday, appeared on state television. ``The Ivory Coast could 
not accept this electoral coup d'etat,'' Gbagbo said in a four-minute 
speech in which he declared himself the country's new president. ``That 
is why I called on you to resist.'' Gbagbo said he now controlled 
the military, called for national reconciliation and said he would 
soon form a new government. Across Abidjan Wednesday afternoon, people 
held their fingers up in ``V'' signs for victory. Despite the euphoria, 
many questions remained unanswered as night fell. Guei was reported 
to have fled to nearby Benin with his family. But then the army chief 
of staff, Diabakate, told journalists that Guei was still in the presidential 
palace. Diabakate seemed to accept the reality of the popular uprising. 
He called on all soldiers to return to the barracks, telling Ivoirians 
that ``the armies of the Ivory Coast have heard you.'' Politically, 
the country remained as divided as ever, and there were no signs Wednesday 
night that Gbagbo's declaration of winning the presidency or his call 
for reconciliation would be heeded. Gbagbo's party, the Ivoirian Popular 
Front, is the country's third largest party, behind the Democratic 
Party of the Ivory Coast and the Rally of the Republicans _ both of 
which were excluded from Sunday's election. ``We must hold another 
election with the participation of all the candidates,'' said Ali 
Coulibaly, the spokesman for the Rally of the Republicans, in a telephone 
interview on Wednesday. ``Guei proclaimed himself president yesterday, 
and Gbagbo proclaimed himself president today. The president of the 
country must be chosen by the people.'' Members of the Rally of the 
Republicans marched here and through the northern cities of Bouake 
and Korhogo late Wednesday afternoon, calling for a new election. 
The party's candidate, Alassane D. Ouattara, a former prime minister 
and a former deputy managing director of the International Monetary 
Fund in Washington, was disqualified from running in Sunday's election 
by a court controlled by Guei. A reconciliation between Ouattara and 
Gbagbo will be particularly difficult. Onetime allies, Gbagbo turned 
against Ouattara last year, adopting a xenophobic platform aimed at 
rallying Christian southerners like himself against Muslim northerners 
like Ouattara. About 40 percent of the Ivory Coast's population is 
Muslim, and most of them boycotted Sunday's election _ whose two major 
candidates and three minor ones were Christian southerners. The court 
also eliminated the candidate of the Democratic Party of the Ivory 
Coast, whose officials had earlier rejected Guei's attempt to become 
its candidate. Western nations condemned the court's verdict, withdrawing 
financial support from the elections, which they called illegitimate. 
The two major Ivoirian parties boycotted Sunday's election, and turnout 
appeared very low. On Tuesday, after preliminary results showed that 
Guei was trailing Gbagbo, the junta dissolved the National Electoral 
Commission and the general declared himself the winner. The announcement 
immediately sent protesters to the streets. Soldiers loyal to Guei 
clashed with other soldiers inside a military camp on the outskirts 
of Abidjan. Heavy firing could be heard from the camp until the predawn 
hours Wednesday. As soon as the sun rose Wednesday morning, tens of 
thousands of ordinary Ivoirians began marching from working-class 
neighborhoods surrounding the city center. In lines stretching several 
miles, the demonstrators moved through avenues littered with broken 
vending-stands, burnt cars and burning tires. Supporters of Gbagbo 
were joined by Ivoirians from the north and other ethnic regions. 
The crowds moved forward, turning back when soldiers fired. ``They 
fired in the air first, and when we didn't turn back, they fired at 
us,'' said Roland Degre, a marcher who was running away from the city 
center in a large crowd. ``Guei fired on us.'' Another marcher, Alain 
Djahouri, said: ``Two people were killed. They shot one in the face. 
They shot another in the chest.'' And yet despite those two deaths, 
as well as the deaths of others Wednesday, the crowds kept surging 
forward toward the city center. At a spot not too far from the presidential 
palace, thousands of marchers were stopped at a barricade beyond which 
soldiers waited in a tank. ``I'm here because I have two sons in their 
30s who are sitting at home with no future in this country,'' said 
Jean-Yves LePrince, a grey-bearded 51-year-old. ``I'm here for them. 
We must take back this country.''