The Pentagon is facing new questions about whether it could have prevented 
the terrorist bombing of the USS Cole in Yemen and the death of 17 
sailors. A defense intelligence officer told Congress Wednesday that 
he warned of such attacks and resigned in protest the day after the 
blast. VOA's David Swan is on Capital Hill. The man is described as 
a counter terrorism analyst and expert on the Middle East and Persian 
Gulf. His name and the exact nature of the information he developed 
have not been disclosed, but Senators say the man felt his superiors 
failed to heed his warning that terrorist strikes were possible. He 
spent six hours before the Senate intelligence committee in a closed 
hearing this week. Republican Patt Roberts who announced the resignation 
at another committee hearing says the man's analysis may have slipped 
through the cracks at the Pentagon. This young man is a very, or was 
a very good employee and has resigned out of concern that his threat 
assessment basically was not considered. I don't think it was suppressed, 
so much as it was not considered. The defense intelligence agency 
has strongly denied suppressing warnings of a threat. A spokesman 
confirms a staffer did resign but declines to give any details. Other 
officials insist there was no clear sign the Cole was in danger before 
the apparent suicide bombing ripped The US military central command 
General Tommy Franks defends the decision to use the Yemeni port of 
Aden for refueling. He also says the attack will not drive American 
forces out of the Gulf. We will never reduce the risk to our people 
to zero, but we will reduce the risk to our people in every way we 
can. Our port presence in this region remains in fact a key to preserving 
America's vital interests. US SATCOM will not back away from this 
mission. Yemeni and US officials are reportedly compiling evidence 
of an elaborate conspiracy in the blast. The authorities are said 
to be scouring three safe houses in Aden. Sources are quoted as saying, 
investigators found bomb making material at one of them. David Swan, 
VOA News, Capitol Hill.