new information to report tonight involving the attack on the u.s.s. 
cole. were warned not once, but several times about a possible terrorist 
attack in yemen. with the latest tonight on the investigation, here's 
nbc news pentagon correspondent jim miklaszewski. with the damaged 
cole as a grim backdrop to the ongoing investigation, yemen authorities 
detained a carpenter who say they actually helped the terrorist load 
the bomb on the suicide boat at this safe house. the yemen president 
also claims the attackers were members of the egyptian islamic jihad 
with close ties to osama bin laden. while in washington today, a potential 
bombshell. during a congressional hearing 's revealed the national 
security agency, a super secret intelligence service issued a warning 
about a potential terrorist attack. they talked about one individual 
and one group which we know the name of that was deliberately going 
to take action against the u.s. and or israel in yemen. and a top 
pentagon official testifies the warning was actually, shoeed only 
hours before the cole was bombed. -- issued only hours before the 
cole was bombed. that report, as i understand it, was, in fact, disseminated 
some 12 hours before the explosion. a second, even more specific warning 
was also issued a few hours after the attack. pentagon officials still 
insist the flfings was too vague to prevent the cole bombing but there 
were apparently earlier warnings as well n. a separate hearing today, 
it was revealed a middle east analyst with the defense intelligence 
agency also warned of impending attacks then resigned in frustration 
the day after the cole bombing. he also warns that two or three more 
attacks could come in the next few weeks. the pentagon tonight says 
the analyst reports could not have pinpointed the cole attack. but 
there's a growing consensus on capitol hill that officials here should 
have seen this disaster coming. jim miklaszewski, nbc news, the pentagon.