If the regime of Slobodan Milosevic breaks and Vojislav Kostunica 
takes office as Yugoslavia's president, it could be because of what 
happened at this gritty coal mine here Wednesday. Hundreds of Interior 
Ministry policemen swooped in to break a protest strike at the Kolubara 
mine, which produces the coal for half of Serbia's electricity. The 
police ordered the workers, who have been on strike since Friday demanding 
Kostunica's inauguration as president, to leave. But the strikers 
refused, calling for help. Confronted with up to 20,000 ordinary people 
pouring into the mine to defend the workers, some from as far away 
as the central Serbian city of Cacak and from Belgrade, the capital, 
40 miles to the northeast, the police broke and stood aside. One police 
commander said: ``I'm fed up with this. After this, I'm throwing my 
hat away and going home. The police in Serbia are more democratic 
than you think.'' The police watched as Kostunica himself arrived 
Wednesday evening, pushing through the crowd of miners and their families, 
to cheers and shouts of ``President,'' coming closer to claiming the 
prize he says he won with an outright majority in elections on Sept. 
24. ``I will be with you until we defend what we won on Sept. 24,'' 
Kostunica said. ``Is there anything more honest than the miners of 
Kolubara rising to defend their votes?'' Some miners began to chant, 
some to cry. ``I'm telling you, what you are doing here is not subversion,'' 
Kostunica shouted, his voice breaking up over the primitive sound 
system set up beside him on the steps of a single-story wooden office 
building. ``You are defending the people's will, and those who step 
on the people's will and try to steal their votes are the ones committing 
subversion.'' Kostunica vows not to take part in a second-round runoff 
against Milosevic this Sunday, saying that the government stole votes 
and faked the election results. He is appealing to Milosevic to recognize 
his defeat and step down to spare the country. The opposition is planning 
a huge rally in Belgrade on Thursday, which it hopes will be decisive 
and will push Milosevic out. On Tuesday, the Serbian government issued 
a stern warning to the organizers of this spreading strike, saying 
that they would be arrested for action that ``threatens citizens' 
lives, disrupts normal functioning of traffic, prevents normal work 
of industry, schools, institutions and health facilities.'' The government 
has accused the strikers here of subverting the national interest, 
and early Tuesday morning sent the country's top general, Gen. Nebojsa 
Pavkovic, to tell the workers to go back to work or face punishment. 
Blaming the miners, the government began power cuts all over Serbia 
on Tuesday, a reminder of last year's NATO bombing war over Kosovo. 
And a judge issued a warrant for the arrest of 11 strike leaders, 
plus two opposition politicians. But the police failed to make the 
arrests Wednesday. Miners said they had behaved correctly and, said 
Dragan Micandinovic, an electrical engineer, with ``a sense of shame.'' 
Micandinovic has remained here for three days except for two brief 
visits home to see his children. ``During the NATO war, we worked 
four shifts, including Sundays, and the government called us heroes,'' 
he said bitterly. ``I was here and saw the missiles flying over my 
head. Now the government calls us enemies.'' ``But we are victims,'' 
he said. ``Their victims.'' Slavoljub Sajic, a mechanical engineer, 
said, ``This is the heart of the protest, the heart of Serbia, and 
we're not leaving until Milosevic leaves.'' Police hung back while 
Kostunica spoke, but did not immediately withdraw from the office 
buildings and other facilities they had occupied earlier in the day. 
Wednesday night, workers were negotiating with them about whether 
they would withdraw altogether _ but expressed confidence that the 
police could not get the mine going again. The police, in camouflage 
uniforms and riot gear, with helmets and batons, arrived about 11 
a.m. when only about 100 workers were gathered. ``They came from all 
directions,'' Micandinovic said. ``They threatened us and told us 
to leave or they would drag us out. It was very risky.'' ``There are 
a lot of people here now,'' he said. ``But it was pretty risky this 
morning.'' The police set up a cordon around the mine with roadblocks 
and moved into offices, talking with a strike committee and the management, 
who are supporting the workers. But Micandinovic and others began 
to telephone opposition politicians in nearby Lazarevac, 30 miles 
south of Belgrade, and independent Radio Lazarevac spread the news. 
Relatives, workers and ordinary people began to come toward the mine, 
some dodging the police roadblocks by crossing fields and streams. 
By early afternoon about 1,000 people were trapped behind a police 
roadblock on a bridge just outside the mine itself. Two opposition 
politicians, Vuk Obradovic, a former general, and Dragoljub Micunovic, 
negotiated with the police, to no avail. ``This shows the weakness 
of the regime,'' Micunovic said as he stood at the bridge. ``They 
are faking this campaign of an electricity shortage to frighten people 
and make them suffer and blame it on the opposition.'' The Kolubara 
coal mine is critical, he said. ``Copper mines are on strike, too, 
but people can live without copper, not without electricity.'' But 
the police were clearly unhappy with their orders, Micunovic said, 
adding, ``Both sides are being very patient.'' One young policeman, 
accepting some water, said quietly, ``This is a mess.'' He stopped, 
then said, ``Don't worry, everything will be all right.'' A bus full 
of protesters moved slowly through the crowd and, almost gently, shoved 
aside a police van blocking the bridge. The crowd surged forward; 
the police moved aside, looking sheepish. Some protesters gave them 
apples and clapped them on their shoulders. The mood on the long walk 
from the bridge to the strike headquarters was that of exhilaration, 
even as opposition leaders sped by in cars and buses. Then more cars 
moved by, with license plates from Cacak and other towns, full of 
people who had come to defend the mine. People shouted, ``Cacak! Cacak!'' 
and the slogan of the student resistance movement, ``Otpor'' (``He's 
finished''). Nadia Ruegg, who is married to a Swiss, told the police 
to let her through to see her brother, Aleksandar Nikitic. ``When 
I asked the guy, `Do you have a brother?' he didn't answer,'' she 
said. ``Then he told us, `We won't beat you.' And we told them, `Well, 
we won't beat you either.''' In 1914, Kolubara was the site of one 
of the most famous Serbian victories, when the Serbs turned back the 
Austro-Hungarian army. The ``Kolubarska bitka,'' or ``Kolubara battle,'' 
became part of nationalist folklore, and the famous writer and later, 
briefly, Yugoslav president, Dobrica Cosic, featured it in his novel, 
``Time of Death.'' That part of the novel became a stage play in Belgrade 
in 1986, as Serbian nationalism was growing. At one point, the Serbs 
wait for ammunition from the French, but when it arrives it turns 
out to be the wrong caliber. As the soldiers start to wail and weep, 
the commander turns to the audience and says, ``Don't cry, no one 
can do anything to us.'' On the Kolubara coal field Wednesday evening, 
those words were echoed, unwittingly, by Milanko Bulatovic, a miner 
here for 26 years, who has been here every day of the strike from 
6:30 in the morning until the evening. ``This is the end of him,'' 
he said. ``This is the beginning of the new Serbia. Milosevic cannot 
do anything to us now.''