Ethnic and political street battles erupted Thursday in Abidjan, as 
angry supporters of Ivory Coast's new leader fought followers of a 
rival politician with clubs and machetes. Less than a day after former 
opposition leader Laurent Gbagbo was swept to power by massive demonstrations, 
neighborhoods across this coastal city were wracked with violence 
by militants calling for new presidential elections. At least three 
people were burned to death, according to a witness who did not want 
to be named, and three mosques were torched. Many Muslim residents 
were fleeing the working-class neighborhood of Yopougon with their 
possessions. At least one church was burned in a different section 
of town. Supporters of Ivory Coast's most popular opposition figure, 
Alassane Dramane Ouattara _ most of them Muslims from northern-based 
tribes _ were fighting Gbagbo's backers, who are mostly Christians 
from southern ethnic groups. ``People are dying,'' said Aida Diallo, 
who was fleeing a burning neighborhood to get to her family's home, 
her belongings tied into a cloth sack. ``I'm scared, so scared.'' 
Witnesses said Gbagbo supporters and security forces had tried to 
advance on Ouattara's compound in a wealthy Abidjan suburb Wednesday 
morning, but had been pushed back by crowds of supporters who have 
kept the house surrounded for weeks. An official with Ouattara's party 
said two militants were wounded in the attack and 14 supporters were 
killed during fighting in Abidjan's Abobo neighborhood. That could 
not be independently confirmed. Officials with Gbagbo's party said 
an unknown number of their supporters had been killed. Mobs of people 
_ some of them numbering in the thousands _ could be seen forming 
in various neighborhoods. Paramilitary police firing tear gas broke 
up a number of those gatherings. Ouattara's supporters are demanding 
that new presidential elections be held in this West African nation. 
Ouattara was excluded from Sunday's presidential vote, which now-ousted 
junta leader Gen. Robert Guei claimed to have won. Guei quickly saw 
power slip from his grasp as Gbagbo's supporters _ who also claimed 
victory _ swarmed the streets. Guei's downfall came Wednesday after 
security forces joined the demonstrators, and he is reported to have 
fled to nearby Benin. Black smoke from burning tires billowed above 
Abidjan neighborhoods where Ouattara's backers had blocked the streets. 
In the western city of Gagnoa, police clashed with pro-Ouattara demonstrators 
while in Ouattara's northern stronghold of Korhogo, his supporters 
were burning opponents' houses. On a street corner in Abidjan's posh 
Cocody suburb, young men with white stripes painted on their faces 
_ some of them carrying nail-studded sticks or machetes _ gathered 
on a street corner, calling themselves ``real Ivorians'' and threatening 
to kill Ouattara. Gbagbo's party, the Ivorian Popular Front, ruled 
out sharing power with Ouattara's Rally of the Republicans or holding 
new elections. ``We cannot associate with a movement that is behind 
illegal protests,'' said party official Nguessan Afi _ whose leader 
had called for protests one day earlier. ``We want a well-organized, 
peaceful state that is ruled by law.'' He said the opposition had 
a right to protest but should seek remedies to their grievances in 
legislative and municipal elections. ``In Ivory Coast, parties were 
excluded from the ballot,'' he said. ``But we have a responsibility 
to respect the laws of our country. President Gbagbo is the leader 
of the party with the largest following in the elections, that is 
clear.'' But the election Sunday was problematic from the start. Ivory 
Coast's two largest parties _ Ouattara's and the former ruling Democratic 
Party _ boycotted the vote after their candidates were excluded from 
running by the Supreme Court. ``The great majority of the people of 
Ivory Coast were excluded from these elections, and this government 
is illegitimate,'' said Rally of the Republicans spokesman Amadou 
Coulibaly. While the party has not officially called for protest, 
Coulibaly said demonstrations erupted ``spontaneously'' and he accused 
Gbagbo followers of attacking his party's backers Wednesday as they 
returned from demonstrations. Several people were injured, he said. 
More than 50 people were killed in clashes Tuesday and Wednesday involving 
civilians and the military that brought Gbagbo to power. Gbagbo, a 
left-leaning politician and former university professor, called for 
the popular uprising Tuesday after Guei disbanded the electoral commission 
and declared himself the winner. While Gbagbo's victory in the streets 
was greeted with shouts of jubilation, within a few hours the festivities 
took a sober turn. More than a thousand Ouattara supporters rallied 
in front of the state television offices just yards away from a similar 
group of Gbagbo supporters. Ouattara's backers called for new elections 
and warned of clashes if Gbagbo refused. ``There will be no president 
in Ivory Coast without new elections,'' said Siriman Coulibaly, a 
23-year-old unemployed mechanic. Although both Guei and Gbagbo claimed 
they won the vote, vote-counting never got far enough to announce 
a real winner. The junta stopped public tabulation Monday after a 
fraction of the vote had been counted, showing Gbagbo with a slight 
edge. Gbagbo said Wednesday he would have the count finished. Gbagbo 
called himself president but said he would not take on all the functions 
of chief of state until his win was approved by the commission and 
the Supreme Court. Guei came to power in December during the first 
military takeover in Ivory Coast. He had promised the elections would 
mark a return to civilian rule.