Divers probing the wreck of the Russian submarine Kursk recovered 
a chilling note scrawled as the vessel lay crippled on the sea floor 
last August, an indication that at least 23 crewmen survived for hours 
after two explosions sank the sub. The disclosure refuted the assurances 
of senior military officials that the Kursk's entire crew had most 
likely died within minutes of the explosions, which ripped open the 
hull during a naval exercise in the Barents Sea. And the note instantly 
reignited a national debate over whether the military's attempt to 
rescue the sailors was fatally flawed as well. It also raised the 
prospect that divers will find more notes _ perhaps containing evidence 
as to why the sub exploded and sank _ when and if the bodies of other 
survivors are recovered. The head of the Russian Navy's northern fleet, 
Vice Adm. Mikhail Motsak, said the note was found in the pocket of 
Lt. Capt. Dimitri Kolesnikov, 27, one of four sailors whose bodies 
have been retrieved since the recovery work began last Saturday. Kolesnikov 
ran the sub's turbine room. Motsak refused to release the entire note, 
which he said contained a very private farewell message to the captain's 
family. But an excerpt printed by the semi-official Itar-Tass news 
agency offered a gripping, if brief, glimpse of the situation aboard 
the doomed vessel as it lay 300 feet below the ocean surface, its 
corridors pitch-black and increasingly cold. ``I am writing blind. 
It's 13:15,'' wrote Kolesnikov, using the military-time equivalent 
of 1:15 p.m. ``All personnel from sections six, seven and eight have 
moved to section nine. There are 23 people here. ``We have made this 
decision because none of us can escape.'' Motsak said the note indicates 
that two or three crewmen tried to flee the submarine through a specially 
built escape hatch in that ninth compartment. Russian subs are equipped 
with suits designed to protect sailors during such underwater escapes. 
``As we know, that attempt failed,'' he said, ``maybe because it was 
filled with water.'' Norwegian divers who opened that escape hatch 
on Aug. 21 _ until this week, the first successful effort to penetrate 
the sub _ found that the airlock was filled with water. Motsak said 
Kolesnikov had written his message between 1:34 p.m. and 3:15 p.m. 
on Aug. 12, the day of the blast. That suggested that at a minimum, 
the crewmen survived nearly four hours after the two explosions that 
breached the Kursk. American intelligence vessels and a seismic institute 
in Norway recorded a first blast at about 11:27 a.m., and a second, 
far bigger, one 2 minutes and 15 seconds later, at 11:30 a.m. There 
was no explanation of why the Itar-Tass version of the note stated 
that it was written at 1:15 p.m., while Motsak had a different interpretation. 
Kolesnikov's message suggests that nearly everyone in the aft portion 
of the submarine initially survived the explosions, which devastated 
the two fore compartments housing torpedoes and the sub's command 
post. The Kursk's published crew roster states that 24 sailors were 
assigned to compartments six through nine, one more than the 23 mentioned 
in the captain's note. Efforts by the Russian military, and later 
foreign divers, to rescue the crew captured the attention of Russia 
and the world for several days. The military alternately reported 
hearing tapping sounds from the hull that may have been a signal from 
the sailors inside with the theory that all the sailors must have 
died immediately. Estimates on the available air inside varied wildly. 
The Russian people criticized the military for its handling of the 
accident. The first official announcements came two days after the 
vessel plunged to the bottom of the Barents Sea, and help from Britain 
and Norway was not accepted until four days after the sinking. The 
accident also damaged the reputation of Putin who was criticized for 
not going to the scene of the accident, and instead remaining on vacation 
at a Black Sea resort. Rebuked by the public for his slow response 
and the military's inability to mount an effective rescue, Putin ordered 
the bodies of the Kursk sailors retrieved and buried.