A day after toppling the military dictator in a popular uprising, 
residents of Ivory Coast furiously turned against one another Thursday, 
and the deadly clashes quickly took on religious and ethnic overtones 
and spread to smaller cities. Supporters of two of the main political 
parties, unified the day before in their opposition to the officer, 
Gen. Robert Guei, were thrust apart Thursday by religion, ethnicity 
and their leaders' ambitions. The winner of Sunday's disputed election, 
Laurent Gbagbo, was sworn in as president Thursday afternoon in the 
presidential palace. Gbagbo, who has the backing of the security forces, 
said he would not hold a new election despite calls to do so from 
the country's two other major parties, the United Nations, the United 
States and the Organization for African Unity. ``I extend my hand 
to everyone,'' he said after the inauguration, adding that he would 
form a government of national unity as early as Friday. But Alassane 
D. Ouattara, a former prime minister who was barred from running in 
the election and is insisting on a new vote, took refuge in the German 
ambassador's residence Thursday morning after security forces surrounded 
his house and fired tear gas and ammunition. The attack was led by 
supporters of Gbagbo and backed by paramilitary gendarmes in two vehicles, 
according to Ouattara's supporters and other witnesses. A motley group 
of Ouattara's own security forces _ including armed guards, traditional 
hunters known as dozos and young men carrying machetes, molotov cocktails 
and rocks _ guarded the house after he fled. ``Look at what they tried 
to do the house this morning,'' said Ali Coulibaly, a spokesman for 
Ouattara, rejecting the idea that his party could work with Gbagbo. 
``We can't tell the difference now between the security forces and 
Gbagbo's party. Look at the way Gbagbo seized power today.'' Elsewhere 
in Abidjan, dozens of people were reported killed, pushing the death 
toll over three days to nearly 90. Only a day earlier, euphoria had 
swept the country after tens of thousands of Ivoirians descended on 
the city center and, in scenes that recalled the popular revolt against 
Slobodan Milosevic in Yugoslavia but were new to Africa, overthrew 
Guei. The general, who had declared himself winner of the election 
after canceling the count, fled Abidjan, though his whereabouts were 
still unclear Thursday night. Immediately after the general's downfall, 
Gbagbo declared himself president, called for national reconciliation 
and lifted the state of emergency and curfew. But Thursday night, 
after it became clear that Ouattara's supporters were unwilling to 
accept Gbagbo's terms, the state of emergency and the curfew were 
reimposed. Thursday supporters of both men fought one another with 
machetes and clubs, and mosques and churches were attacked in clashes 
that have increasingly taken an ethnic and religious cast in a country 
that until recent years was an unusual model of unity in Africa. Guei 
and the unpopular president he overthrew last year, Henri Konan Bedie, 
had each tried to exploit the ethnic and religious divisions to their 
advantage, and hence inflamed them. A court controlled by the general 
excluded Ouattara, a Muslim, from the vote Sunday, provoking a boycott 
by his party and many Muslims, who make up 40 percent of the population 
in this West African nation. The court also barred the Democratic 
Party of the Ivory Coast, which had governed the country for most 
of its post-independence history. In the face of many Muslims' calls 
for a new election, supporters of Gbagbo, who like 30 percent of the 
population is Christian, have vented their anger. Gbagbo's supporters 
and their gendarme backers seemed to overwhelm Ouattara's supporters, 
who began the day with vast demonstrations, and most of those killed 
Thursday were Muslims. In Abobo, a sprawling working-class neighborhood 
that suffered the heaviest violence, three mosques were attacked and 
half a dozen people were reported dead. The neighborhood remained 
on edge after the morning's riots, with fires smoldering on deserted 
streets. At one mosque, the imam, Traore Yaya, nervously answered 
the door when a reporter knocked Thursday morning. Muslims who live 
on the block came quietly out of their houses as Yaya showed two palm-sized 
tear-gas canisters. ``We were praying on the street in front of the 
mosque when gendarmes came by and threw tear gas at us,'' he said. 
A jeep filled with gendarmes suddenly passed as he was talking, and 
the crowd scattered. On a main street not far away, where a wounded 
old woman was trying to find help, Muslims also said that the gendarmes 
had backed Gbagbo's supporters. ``All the gendarmes we saw were from 
one ethnic group _ Gbagbo's,'' said Sekou Kone, a 35-year-old merchant, 
who had been hiding inside his shop. ``This means we are heading into 
a civil war. ``Since the general is gone, the people must now have 
fair elections. One third of the Ivoirian population cannot choose 
a president,'' a reference to the 37 percent turnout. By Thursday 
night the violence appeared to have died down after two high-ranking 
officials from Ouattara's and Gbagbo's parties appeared together on 
state television and urged their followers to stop fighting. They 
announced that the two political leaders would meet, though they did 
not say when. The call for a new election was endorsed by several 
prominent outsiders, including Kofi Annan, secretary-general of the 
United Nations; Thabo Mbeki, the president of South Africa; and Gnassingbe 
Eyadema, the president of Togo and the current head of the Organization 
for African Unity. The United States echoed these calls. ``It's going 
to be very important for the voices of the disenfranchised Ivoirians 
to be heard and, in that sense, the holding of free, fair and inclusive 
elections will be needed,'' said Philip Reeker, a State Department 
spokesman. Significantly, however, France, the former colonial power 
and the biggest foreign powerbroker in the Ivory Coast, said it was 
satisfied with the results of Sunday's election and called for legislative 
elections to be held as scheduled in December. Gbagbo, a socialist, 
has close ties with the Socialist Party in France. According to the 
final results of the National Electoral Commission, which General 
Guei dissolved after preliminary figures showed he was trailing, Gbagbo 
received 59 percent of the votes, compared with 33 percent for the 
general. Because of the boycott, only 2 million voted in this country 
of 15 million people. Voting was especially light in the Muslim north. 
In addition to Ouattara's call for a boycott, the largest Islamic 
organization told Muslims to stay home. The Ivory Coast was for decades 
an African anomaly: a country where people of different religions 
and ethnic groups co-existed peacefully, under policies enacted by 
President Felix Houphouet-Boigny, who led the country for three decades. 
But Bedie, who became president after Houphouet-Boigny died in 1993, 
stirred up xenophobia aimed at Muslim northerners in an attempt to 
sideline his main rival, Ouattara, who was deputy managing director 
of the International Monetary Fund until last year. As Bedie spoke 
of ``pure Ivoirians'' and ``foreigners,'' northerners and immigrants 
became targets of the authorities. Among ordinary Ivoirians, the cleavages 
widened between Muslims and Christians. Guei, who seized power last 
year, adopted a similar anti-northern position. What is more, Gbagbo, 
who had been allied with Ouattara, broke off their union and also 
inserted ethnocentric and xenophobic language in his political messages.