But today's top story takes us to Ivory Coast where supporters of 
Orano Gbagbo continue to clash with followers of Alassane Ouattara. 
Gbagbo is the man whose electoral victory helped chase a military 
ruler from power and possibly from the country. Ouattara is the man, 
one of several actually, who was barred from running. The World's 
Katy Clark has her story. Ivory Coast's National Electoral Commission 
announced today that Gbagbo had received more than 59% of the votes 
cast Sunday against former military leader General Robert Guei but 
that does not settle the question of who is the rightful president 
of the West African nation. One prominent opposition leader Alassane 
Ouattara was barred from competing in the campaign. Today, he denounced 
the election as "corrupt and unfair". The process was completely manipulated 
by President Gay who through the judicial process eliminated the main 
candidates, myself and the candidates of the PDCI, the former ruling 
party and there were circumstances, turn out was around 20%, which 
mean that 80% of the people, of the voters, abstained. Since the election 
it seems that almost as many people have taken to the streets in protest. 
First of Gay's claim to victory and then of Gbagbo's rise to power. 
Today, the mainly Christian backers of President elect Gbagbo and 
a largely Muslim supporters of Ouattara overturned cars and attacked 
churches and mosques in the commercial capital Abidjan and at least 
20 people were killed. Francois Rivasseau of the French foreign ministry 
says, Sunday's election should have resolved the question of who holds 
power in the nation. We have no doubts about the result and we are 
pretty sure about the decision and work of the Electoral Commissioner. 
Mr. Gbagbo will be assigned as the next president but it's not up 
to us to say so. It's upto the citizens of Ivory Coast. But many of 
those citizens are furious. In response to their angry demonstrations, 
Ivory Coast chief of defense declared today security forces will shoot 
on sight anyone who breaks an overnight curfew. Concerned about the 
continued tumult, the organization of African Unity today called for 
an emergency meeting. Gale Smith, a special assistant to President 
Clinton on African affairs says, the White House is also taking a 
keen interest in the situation doing what it can to end the violence. 
The most important thing at present, that we and others are doing 
is prevailing upon all the key political activists to call for calm. 
The tendency of each of them is to say "its not my fault, it's the 
other guy's fault". The bottom line here is that they all need to 
line up behind calming the situation before it spins any further out 
of control. Smith says the political upheaval didn't come as a surprise. 
There were hints of unrest last fall when General Gay staged a military 
coup, the first ever in a once peaceful Ivory Coast. We have been 
prevailing upon General Gay and others as have countries in the region 
that the course he was on, was going to lead to instability and potential 
violence. He was not prepared to listen and I think what we are seeing 
now is the outgrowth of the great manipulation of the political system 
and now we have got a number of forces vying for power. And it couldn't 
come at a worst time and place. Smith says Ivory Coast had been a 
source of stability in a volatile region. The White House, she adds 
is placing a high priority on containing the turmoil in Ivory Coast, 
lest it spread to its West African neighbors. For The World, I'm Katy 
Clark.