For the past week and a half, Yugoslavs have confronted their government 
with street demonstrations, strikes and boycotts. The protesters claim 
that opposition presidential candidate Vojislav Kostunica won last 
month's election and that the incumbent Slobodan Milosevic should 
relinquish power. Milosevic insists that his opponent failed to win 
at least 50 percent of the vote and that a run off election will be 
held Sunday. Neither side is giving an inch and today the action is 
centered to the Kolubara coal mining complex. The World's Nenad Chebeck 
is in the Serbian capital of Belgrade. Nenad, how did things unfold 
today in Kolubara? Well, it was pretty dramatic. For a while it appeared 
as if the police is going to move in. There are about 7000 miners 
on strike in the Kolubara coal mine. It's Serbia's most important 
coal mine. It's about 35 miles outside the Serbian capital Belgrade. 
Crack police troops sort of put a cordon around the striking miners. 
One unit sort of went in and took over the administrative buildings. 
That was when the miners appealed to the rest of the population to 
come and help them and sort of literally, within a couple of hours, 
thousands and thousands of people started streaming towards the mine. 
Some came from the neighboring villages on foot, others set out from 
Belgrade in cars, buses, lorries. And within hours actually thousands 
and thousands of people assembled outside the coal mine. There was 
a police line there blocking their route and then apparently one man 
came across with a caterpillar and threatened to sort of to push the 
police buses and vehicles aside with the caterpillar. The police then 
moved him and then thousands of people streamed into the coal mine, 
sort of, and there were scenes of great joy as the people from the 
neighboring villages, towns, and Belgrade indeed itself joined the 
striking miners. A little bit later on the leader of the Opposition, 
Vojislov Kostunica, the man who claims that he is now the President 
of Yugoslavia, came and addressed the miners saying that they have 
to persevere and they have to do it peacefully and accused President 
Milosevic of creating chaos and wanting to create civil war in the 
country. On a practical level then Nenad, how effective is that strike 
at Kolubara? Is it having much impact? I think this is a very, very 
important element. I mean I'm sort of being cautious about calling 
it crucial or a key element. But I think this is very important that 
police troops which came to Kolubara were crack police units. They 
had orders, it would appear, to break the miner's strike and possibly 
bring in other people who were willing to sort of work in the coal 
mine, very important coal mine. The whole idea of the miners joining 
the anti-Milosevic demonstration is very important because throughout 
the last eleven years of anti-Milosevic demonstrations, this is the 
first time that the workers have joined in the protest. So far, we 
have had the intelligentia, we've had students, we've had the middle 
class demonstrate against Milosevic. That's why this particular protest 
is very, very important. So what is happening at the same time where 
you are in Belgrade? In Belgrade we've seen protests going on throughout 
the whole day. There were protests in various banks, there were protests 
in shops, almost every office was at some point sort of blocked and 
stopped working for a few hours. When I tried to have my photograph 
taken for the accreditation with the Minister of Information here, 
I couldn't do it because all the photo shops were on strike today. 
We are also hearing sort of something which is certainly very disturbing 
news for President Milosevic. Today a journalist from Politica, which 
is the most important government-controlled daily and from Radio Belgrade, 
which again is the most important electronic media in the country, 
one of the pillars of President Milosevic's power. Today journalists, 
about 8 of them from Politica and about 40 from Radio Belgrade, had 
a meeting and demanded that these two sort of really important medias 
in Belgrade change their editorial policy and start telling the people 
the truth. Now that is a very, very significant development. We'll 
see whether these demands are going to spread or whether more people 
will join them. But with the miners striking in Kolubara and with 
the media sort of shaking here, I would say sort of that Milosevic 
is in a very, very delicate position at the moment. Against this backdrop 
Nenad, the Opposition has now given Milosevic a deadline of tomorrow 
afternoon to admit defeat and ultimately step down. Isn't the deadline 
backing the Opposition into a corner at best and dangerous at worst? 
Well, they are in a corner anyway. Once they have rejected the second 
round of voting, they did paint themselves into a corner and they 
have got no option now but to sort of continue with strikes, civil 
disobedience, trying to drive the country down to a halt and in that 
way sort of push President Milosevic out of power. They have got no 
other option. For tomorrow, they have organized a demonstration, which 
they say will be the biggest one so far. They have invited the people 
from the rest of Serbia to come to Belgrade, to come to the Serbian 
capital and to show Milosevic that they don't want him as their President 
anymore. The World's Nenad Chebeck speaking to us from Belgrade. Thank 
you for the update Nenad. You are welcome.