Longtime opposition leader Laurent Gbagbo was sworn in as president 
Thursday at the heavily guarded presidential palace, as political 
officials appealed for an end to the violence that has wracked Abidjan 
and other cities in this West African nation. ``I feel in this moment 
the renaissance of the Ivory Coast, the birth of a modern, prosperous, 
democratic and united nation,'' said Gbagbo, who was swept to power 
Wednesday in a popular uprising that forced junta leader Gen. Robert 
Guei to flee. But street celebrations over the junta's downfall Wednesday 
were short-lived, and by Thursday morning Gbagbo's supporters, sometimes 
backed by security forces, were battling followers of a rival political 
boss with machetes, rocks and clubs. Dozens of people were said to 
have been killed. At least three people were burned alive in the working 
class neighborhood of Yopougon, a witness said, and three mosques 
were torched. At least one church was burned in another part of town 
as residents fled the worst areas. Supporters of Ivory Coast's most 
popular opposition figure, Alassane Dramane Ouattara _ most of them 
Muslims from northern-based tribes _ fought Gbagbo's backers, who 
are mostly Christians from southern ethnic groups. ``People are dying,'' 
said Aida Diallo, who was fleeing one burning neighborhood to get 
to her family's home. ``I'm scared, so scared.'' Much of the violence 
had died down in Abidjan by early afternoon, following large-scale 
deployment of security forces firing tear gas into crowds and gunshots 
into the air. Thursday night, senior officials with Gbagbo's Ivorian 
Popular Front and Ouattara's Rally of the Republicans appeared together 
on state-controlled television to appeal for peace. ``We call on all 
our militants, our supporters, to desist,'' Gbagbo official Lida Kouassi 
said. ``Ivory Coast is in the process of coming out of anguish.'' 
The U.S. Embassy on Thursday ordered its nonessential staff and all 
embassy dependents to leave this Ivory Coast for at least 30 days, 
a U.S. diplomat said. Americans not part of the embassy community 
have not been advised to leave, the diplomat said. Earlier Wednesday, 
witnesses said Gbagbo supporters and security forces had tried to 
advance on Ouattara's compound in a wealthy Abidjan suburb, but had 
been pushed back by crowds who have surrounded the house for weeks. 
Less serious clashes continued intermittently outside the house. At 
one intersection in the nearby neighborhood of Blokosso, ethnic Ebrie 
youths chased frightened motorists while screaming and waving machetes. 
Residents said the youths were seeking revenge for the destruction 
of a Blokosso church, allegedly by Ouattara supporters. An official 
with Ouattara's party said at least 40 _ and perhaps as many as 80 
_ of his supporters were killed Thursday. Gbagbo's party officials 
said there was no way to know how many of their supporters had died. 
About 50 people were reported to have died in clashes Tuesday and 
Wednesday. Those figures could not be independently confirmed. Ouattara's 
supporters are demanding that new presidential elections be held in 
Ivory Coast. Ouattara was excluded from Sunday's presidential elections. 
The vote was intended to restore civilian rule 10 months after a military 
coup, but former junta leader Guei disbanded the country's electoral 
commission while votes were still being counted Tuesday and declared 
himself the winner. Gbagbo's supporters _ who also claimed victory 
_ swarmed Ivory Coast's streets, later to be joined by members of 
the junta's own security forces. Guei is reported to have fled Wednesday 
to nearby Benin. His departure was greeted in the streets with jubilation. 
But within a few hours, Ouattara's followers were rallying, and black 
smoke billowed above Abidjan neighborhoods where Ouattara's backers 
had blocked off the streets with burning tires, gutted vehicles, pieces 
of furniture and roadside garbage. In the western city of Gagnoa, 
police clashed with pro-Ouattara demonstrators, while in Ouattara's 
northern stronghold of Korhogo, his supporters were burning opponents' 
houses. Gbagbo's supporters complained their rivals only took to the 
streets after Guei had been forced from power. On the ground, however, 
Gbagbo's followers were quick to respond with violence. On a street 
corner in Abidjan's posh Cocody suburb, young men with white stripes 
painted on their faces _ some carrying nail-studded sticks or machetes 
_ gathered on one street corner, calling themselves ``real Ivorians'' 
and threatening to kill Ouattara. After being sworn in, Gbagbo said 
he had invited Rally of the Republicans officials to meet with him 
later Thursday night to find a solution to their differences. He added, 
though: ``We will not do another presidential election.'' The Sunday 
election was problematic from the start. Ivory Coast's two largest 
parties _ Ouattara's and the former ruling Democratic Party _ boycotted 
the vote after their candidates were barred from running by the Supreme 
Court. Both accused Gbagbo of going along with an electoral farce 
by refusing to join the boycott. ``The great majority of the people 
of Ivory Coast were excluded from these elections, and this government 
is illegitimate,'' said Rally of the Republicans spokesman Amadou 
Coulibaly. U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan backed calls for new 
presidential elections Thursday, saying the conditions were right 
to put in place a democratic process to let the country's people freely 
elect a leader. In Washington, U.S. State Department spokesman Philip 
Reeker said the electoral process had been ``fundamentally flawed'' 
because it barred the opposition, and ``free and fair elections will 
be needed to get back to democracy.'' On Wednesday, the National Electoral 
Commission released results showing Gbagbo won the vote with 59.6 
percent support, versus 32.7 percent for Guei. Minor candidates shared 
the rest of the vote. Guei came to power in a December coup, the first 
military takeover in Ivory Coast. Instability since has battered the 
economy and frightened Ivorians and foreign investors alike.