The new president met with his top political rival Friday in hopes 
of stemming violence between their followers that has torn apart this 
West African nation. With calm starting to return to the commercial 
capital, many Ivorians ventured out of their homes for the first time 
in days to sweep away the debris of three days of clashes and resume 
their lives. Downtown Abidjan was quieter than usual, but businesses 
started to open and people and cars returned to the streets. The talks 
came after brutal clashes between backers of the new president, Laurent 
Gbagbo, and those of a rival political leader demanding a new vote. 
Dozens of people were believed killed in the fighting Thursday that 
resulted in mosques and churches burning. The violence marred Gbagbo's 
inauguration at the marble-halled presidential palace on Thursday, 
a day after he was swept into power in a popular uprising that forced 
junta leader Gen. Robert Guei to flee. ``I feel in this moment the 
renaissance of the Ivory Coast, the birth of a modern, prosperous, 
democratic and united nation,'' Gbagbo said after being sworn in. 
Afterward, Gbagbo rejected a new ballot, as demanded by rival Alassane 
Dramane Ouattara, Ivory Coast's most popular opposition figure. ``We 
will not do another presidential election,'' Gbagbo said. But consultations 
began that same night between Gbagbo's Ivorian Popular Front and Ouattara's 
Rally of the Republicans, as well as the former ruling Democratic 
Front of Ivory Coast, Gbagbo's officials said. Gbagbo and Ouattara 
met Friday morning at the new president's residence, where they discussed 
the appointment of a new Cabinet, the role of the army in street protests 
and the establishment of new state institutions. The two leaders then 
shook hands and sat side by side on a sofa smiling for the cameras. 
Ouattara said he had told Gbagbo to form his Cabinet without the Rally, 
but did not rule out participating at a later stage. ``Entering the 
government is not a priority,'' he said. ``The priority is burying 
and mourning the dead.'' He said his party would focus on upcoming 
legislative elections. Gbagbo was expected to announce his Cabinet 
later Friday. The demands for a new vote come after a flawed presidential 
election Sunday in which Guei and Gbagbo were the main candidates. 
When Guei tried to claim victory in the vote, he was ousted. Ouattara, 
thought to have more support than Gbagbo, was barred from the vote 
by the Supreme Court, as were many other candidates, including those 
of the Democratic Party. U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan backed 
the calls for new presidential elections Thursday, saying the conditions 
were now right to put in place a democratic process to let the country's 
people freely elect a leader. In Washington, U.S. State Department 
spokesman Philip Reeker said the electoral process had been ``fundamentally 
flawed'' because it barred the opposition, and ``free and fair elections 
will be needed to get back to democracy.'' France, however, the country's 
former colonial ruler, said it was up to Ivorians to decide whether 
to hold new elections. French Prime Minister Lionel Jospin said Friday 
he hoped Ivorians would decide on ``a true democratic process ... 
starting with the elected authority that exists today.'' Thursday 
morning, Gbagbo's supporters, sometimes backed by security forces, 
battled Ouattara followers with machetes, rocks and clubs in Abidjan 
and other cities. At least three people were burned alive in the working 
class neighborhood of Yopougon, a witness said, and three mosques 
were torched. At least one church was burned in another part of town 
as residents fled the worst areas. Ouattara's backers are mostly Muslims 
from northern-based tribes, while Gbagbo's followers are mostly Christians 
from southern ethnic groups. An official with Ouattara's party said 
at least 40 _ and perhaps as many as 80 _ of his supporters were killed 
Thursday. Gbagbo's party officials said there was no way to know how 
many of their supporters had died. Much of the violence had died down 
in Abidjan by early afternoon, following large-scale deployment of 
security forces firing tear gas into crowds and gunshots into the 
air. The U.S. Embassy on Thursday ordered its nonessential staff and 
all embassy dependents to leave Ivory Coast for at least 30 days, 
a U.S. diplomat said. Americans not part of the embassy community 
have not been advised to leave, the diplomat said. The new clashes 
continued the violence that has wracked a nation that had been seen 
as West Africa's most stable _ though earlier this week the clashes 
had focused on ousting Guei, who came to power 10 months ago in a 
military coup. About 50 people were reported to have died in clashes 
Tuesday and Wednesday. Those figures could not be independently confirmed. 
In the unrest, Gbagbo's supporters had swarmed the streets after Guei 
disbanded the election commission and declared victory in Sunday's 
vote. Soldiers, who at first fired on demonstrators, then backed the 
uprising, and Guei reportedly fled to nearby Benin. While slowly returning 
to normal, Abidjan remained uneasy Friday. Officials went on state-run 
radio to quell rumors that the city's water supply had been poisoned.