The Senate race between the late Gov. Mel Carnahan and Republican 
Sen. John Ashcroft remains extremely close little more than a week 
after Carnahan's death in a plane crash. A telephone poll conducted 
for The Kansas City Star found the Democrat Carnahan and incumbent 
Ashcroft at 46 percent each. Seven percent were undecided and 1 percent 
preferred third-party candidates. The poll had a margin of error of 
4 percentage points. Because Carnahan died so close to the Nov. 7 
election, his name will remain on the ballot. Democratic Gov. Roger 
Wilson has said he would appoint Carnahan's widow, Jean, if Carnahan 
wins. Jean Carnahan has not said whether she will accept. Experts 
cautioned the race could change quickly. ``I can't predict what will 
happen once a little more time and distance is put between last week's 
events,'' said Brad Coker, managing director of Mason-Dixon Polling 
&AMP; Research, which conducted the survey. In a second question, 
the poll conducted on Monday and Tuesday included an explanation of 
Carnahan's death and Wilson's plan to appoint Carnahan's widow for 
a two-year term if Carnahan were the top vote-getter. With the additional 
information, Carnahan's support rose to 47 percent with Ashcroft at 
45 percent, the first time Carnahan was ahead in an independent survey 
since February. New polls in Virginia and Michigan also found Senate 
races in statistical dead heats. In Virginia, Democratic Sen. Chuck 
Robb has cut into the lead held by Republican George Allen. A poll 
released Thursday found Allen's small lead within the margin of error. 
Forty-seven percent of the voters said they would vote for Allen if 
the election were held then, while 44 percent backed Robb. Nine percent 
were undecided. The poll of 627 likely voters on Tuesday and Wednesday 
was conducted for newspapers and broadcasters by Mason-Dixon Polling 
&AMP; Research. It has a margin of error of four percentage points. 
For the past two years, Allen has enjoyed a comfortable lead in the 
polls. But in the past three months, Robb has cut the margin with 
gains among female voters. In July, women voters were evenly split. 
Now, Robb has an 11-percentage point lead. At the same time, Allen 
has maintained roughly a 20-percentage point lead among men. Robb 
is no stranger to comebacks. Six years ago, he also trailed his Republican 
opponent throughout most of the campaign, taking a small lead in the 
polls only a few days before winning the three-way race. In Michigan, 
a poll released Thursday found Democratic Rep. Debbie Stabenow in 
a dead heat with Republican incumbent Spence Abraham after months 
of trailing Abraham. The poll, by Lansing's EPIC/MRA, shows Abraham 
and Stabenow each with 41 percent, with 15 percent of voters undecided. 
The poll, conducted for the Detroit Free Press and WXYZ-TV of Detroit, 
questioned 600 likely voters Monday through Wednesday and had a margin 
of error of plus or minus four percentage points. Only two weeks ago, 
Stabenow was 10 points behind.