A measure of order returned to the streets of cities here Friday after 
leaders of the two main political factions met, easing the violent 
clashes that had erupted between their followers after the country's 
military dictator was driven from power. The leaders of the two main 
parties had been unified in their opposition to the dictator, Gen. 
Robert Guei, who was overthrown in a public uprising on Wednesday 
after he claimed to be the winner of elections held Sunday. But the 
party leaders were quickly pulled apart by religion, ethnic divisions 
and their leaders' ambitions. The two sides began fighting on Thursday 
and violent clashes between police and rival factions occurred here 
and in smaller cities. Alassane D. Ouattara, the most popular opposition 
leader and a Muslim, had been banned from participating in the elections 
by Guei, who seized power in a coup on Dec. 24 of last year. Outtara's 
followers responded by boycotting the vote. Guei was defeated by the 
only opposition candidate allowed to run, Laurent Gbagbo, the leader 
of the Socialist Party and a Christian, who quickly asserted his claim 
to the presidency after Guei was ousted. Gbagbo, sworn in as president 
on Thursday, swiftly rejected a demand by Ouattara, a former prime 
minister, for new elections. But Ouattara appeared to set aside his 
demand for a new election after the two men met Friday morning at 
Gbagbo's presidential residence. After the private meeting, they shook 
hands publicly and sat side by side. Originally, Gbagbo said he wanted 
to form a national unity government. But Ouattara said after the meeting 
Friday morning that he would not join Gbagbo's government, at least 
for now. Ouattara said his party, Rally of the Republicans, would 
concentrate on legislative elections, which are scheduled for December. 
``Entering the government is not a priority,'' Ouattara said. ``The 
priority is burying and mourning the dead.'' Dozens of people were 
reported killed in Abidjan on Thursday, pushing the toll over three 
days to near 90. But on Friday shops began to reopen, families emerged 
from hiding and people began to sweep up the detritus and rubble that 
remained from the days of clashes and confrontations between soldiers 
and citizens, Muslims and Christians. The United Nations, the United 
States and the Organization for African Unity had all called for a 
new presidential election. But France, the former colonial power and 
the biggest foreign power broker here, said it was satisfied with 
the results of Sunday's election. Gbagbo has close ties with the Socialist 
Party in France. On Wednesday, euphoria had swept the country after 
tens of thousands of Ivoirians descended on the city center and, in 
scenes that recalled the popular revolt against Slobodan Milosevic 
in Yugoslavia, but were unusual in Africa, overthrew Guei. The general 
fled Abidjan, and his current whereabouts are unknown. The rival parties 
in the Ivory Coast, which generally represent different ethnic and 
religious groups, clashed after Guei lost the support of the army 
and Gbagbo declared himself president. The security forces, which 
had supported Guei, began backing Gbagbo. And Ouattara was forced 
to flee to the German ambassador's residence Thursday morning after 
security forces surrounded his house and fired tear gas and ammunition. 
Thursday, supporters of Ouattara and Gbagbo fought one another with 
machetes and clubs. By Thursday night the violence appeared to have 
died down after two high-ranking officials from Ouattara's and Gbagbo's 
parties appeared together on state television and urged their followers 
to stop fighting.