WASHINGTON (AP) _ U.S. law enforcement and intelligence officials 
investigating the bombing of the USS Cole are searching for links 
to Islamic militant Osama bin Laden but so far have found no hard 
evidence, American officials said Friday. Asked whether a clear link 
has been established, FBI spokesman Jim Margolin said, ``That's an 
obvious question that's being looked into. We're not confirming such 
a link exists.'' Margolin said the FBI would not comment further. 
A senior U.S. intelligence official, speaking on condition of anonymity, 
said Friday that while bin Laden, a Saudi who lives in Afghanistan, 
is a likely suspect, the investigation has not yet established firmly 
that he financed the operation or supervised it. ``There are no conclusions 
made at this point'' about who is behind the bombing, which killed 
17 U.S. sailors and wounded 39, he said. Meantime, Secretary of State 
Madeleine Albright and FBI Director Louis Freeh appealed in a joint 
statement for greater cooperation from the Yemenis in the investigation, 
because FBI agents have encountered the same problem they had in an 
earlier terrorism investigation in Saudi Arabia _ no direct access 
to suspects. The FBI, working with Yemeni authorities in the port 
of Aden, has completed examining the ship and various locations in 
Yemen for physical evidence, Albright and Freeh said. They did not 
identify the locations, but officials have said they include several 
houses thought to have been used to prepare the attack. Albright and 
Freeh confirmed that FBI evidence teams, laboratory examiners and 
bomb technicians have been returning home. Officials have said more 
than 20 agents remain, including investigators, security and communication 
specialists. Albright and Freeh praised Yemeni cooperation during 
the searches, in which FBI specialists had full access to the sites 
and returned key evidence to Washington for detailed lab tests. But 
they sought more access now. ``The next critical phase will require 
Yemeni and U.S. personnel to work as partners in the collection of 
information and participants in the interview process of witnesses,'' 
Albright and Freeh said. ``We count on President Saleh's commitment 
of full cooperation.'' FBI officials have privately complained that 
they have not been able to participate in Yemeni interviews with witnesses 
or suspects so far. Freeh visited Yemen personally to push for that 
access. Similar trips by Freeh to Saudi Arabia after a 1996 truck 
bomb attack on the Khobar Towers complex housing killed 19 U.S. airmen 
failed to win his agents the ability to directly participate in suspect 
interviews there. Bin Laden, the son of a billionaire Saudi Arabian 
family, is frequently mentioned as a possible suspect. He is on the 
FBI's list of 10 most-wanted fugitives; he is wanted in connection 
with the Aug. 7, 1998, bombing of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and 
Tanzania, which killed more than 200 people, including 12 Americans. 
The Pentagon has declined to comment on the Cole bombing investigation. 
Defense Secretary William Cohen and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff are urging military commanders use the USS Cole bombing as 
an impetus for strengthening anti-terrorist protections for their 
troops. As Cohen and Gen. Henry H. Shelton made that plea Thursday 
in a video teleconference with commanders and other top military leaders, 
the co-directors of a special commission investigating the Cole bombing 
headed to Yemen ``to look for themselves'' at the situation, Pentagon 
spokesman Kenneth Bacon said. Bacon declined to provide any details 
on the schedule of retired Adm. Harold Gehman and retired Army Gen. 
William Crouch, whom Cohen appointed to find ``force protection'' 
lessons in the Cole attack. The Gehman-Crouch commission's work is 
separate from the FBI's investigation, which is aimed at determining 
who committed the crime. In light of the Cole tragedy and reports 
of additional terrorist plots against American military targets, Cohen 
and Shelton used Thursday's video teleconference to emphasize to U.S. 
commanders the urgency of shoring up any weaknesses in security protection 
plans. ``The goal basically was to make a good system better, and 
to use the concern that has been generated by the attack against the 
Cole as an opportunity for all commanders in chief to make sure that 
they are reviewing their force protection postures and their procedures, 
to make sure that they are making any necessary changes,'' Bacon said. 
The Cole was attacked by suicide terrorist bombers during a refueling 
stop Oct. 12 in the Yemeni port of Aden. Two men in a small boat edged 
up to the 505-foot Cole at a fueling dock in the harbor and detonated 
a package of explosives, blowing a hole 40 feet high and 40 feet wide 
in the ship's steel hull. One question that has arisen in the aftermath 
is whether Navy ships should have more or better-trained security 
aboard. The private Pentagon conference, which lasted a little over 
an hour, included the heads of the U.S. regional commands _ covering 
Europe, Latin America, the Asia-Pacific and the Middle East _ plus 
the civilian service secretaries and the uniformed service chiefs 
and commanders of U.S.-based major commands. Bacon was reluctant to 
reveal specifics of Cohen and Shelton's remarks, but said the two 
men gave directions on improving protection for U.S. forces, both 
at home and abroad. These were not orders for specific measures but 
urgings to look for ways to correct any existing weaknesses, Bacon 
said. The commanders spelled out the force protection measures they 
are taking and plan to take in the future, and they all expressed 
concern about paying for the improvements, he said. ``Obviously, if 
there's going to be enhanced force protection in certain ways, it 
would require greater resources,'' Bacon said. The commanders also 
were in agreement that more emphasis needs to be placed on finding 
technological solutions to such problems as defending the perimeters 
of U.S. military installations, Bacon said. He said the conference 
did not address specific threats, although that remains an issue as 
congressional committees investigate the circumstances of the Cole 
bombing. ___ On the Net: The USS Cole at http://www.chinfo.navy.mil/navpalib/news/news_stories/cole.html 
Pentagon casualty list at http://www.defenselink.mil/news/Oct2000/b10202000_bt648-00.html