The damaged USS Cole will be loaded onto a Norwegian ``heavy lift'' 
ship under contract to the U.S. Navy in the Gulf of Aden on Monday 
for transport to the United States, officials said Friday. The Blue 
Marlin, which normally is used to lift and transport commercial cargo 
such as oil rigs, is expected to arrive in the Gulf of Aden, off the 
coast of Yemen, on Sunday from the Persian Gulf port of Dubai, where 
it was outfitted for the job, said Marge Holtz, spokeswoman for the 
Navy's Military Sealift Command. The Navy signed the $4.5 million 
contract with the Blue Marlin's owner, Offshore Heavy Transport of 
Oslo, Norway, just a few days after the Cole was attacked while refueling 
in Aden, Yemen, on Oct. 12. The schedule calls for the Blue Marlin 
to take the crippled Cole onto its deck on Monday in a process that 
will take at least 24 hours, Holtz said. The timing is uncertain because 
the condition of the Cole will be better understood once it is lifted 
out of the water. It has been in the port of Aden since the attack 
by terrorists in a small boat who maneuvered alongside the 505-foot 
destroyer and detonated explosives. The Cole has a hole in the left 
side of its hull estimated at 40 feet wide and 40 feet high. The explosion 
killed 17 sailors, wounded 39 and tore much of the midsection of the 
ship to shreds of metal and wire. Most of the crew of about 300 has 
remained aboard the 8,300-ton ship since the attack. A small number 
are to stay aboard for the trip back to the United States; the rest 
will be flown home. The Navy has said it intends to repair the Cole 
and return it to service, although it has not yet decided where the 
work will be done, spokesman Cmdr. Greg Smith said. Although the Navy 
initially said it planned to take the Cole back to its home port of 
Norfolk Naval Station in Virginia, Smith said Friday that it might 
instead take it to Ingalls Shipbuilding in Pascagoula, Miss., where 
it was built, or to the Bath Iron Works shipyard in Bath, Maine, which 
built other Arleigh Burke-class destroyers like the Cole. The Navy 
has told Congress it may take $150 million to repair the Cole, which 
cost $1 billion to build. Navy officials have said the harbor waters 
of Aden are too shallow for the Blue Marlin to do the lift operation, 
so the Cole will have to be towed out into the Gulf of Aden. To lift 
the Cole, the Blue Marlin will fill her ballast tanks, slowly submerging 
her deck and maneuvering under the Cole. Then the Blue Marlin will 
empty her ballast tanks, rising back to her normal draft of 35 feet 
and lifting the Cole out of the water. The trip back to the United 
States is expected to take about five weeks, Holtz said. The Cole's 
Tomahawk and Harpoon missiles and other munitions, which were not 
damaged in the bombing, will remain aboard in their normal storage 
area, officials said. ___ On the Net: The USS Cole: http://www.spear.navy.mil/ships/ddg67 
Navy's latest news on Cole: http://www.chinfo.navy.mil/navpalib/news/news_stories/cole.html 
The Blue Marlin: http://www.oht.no/fleet/index.html