It is called a houri, Arabic for a small workaday boat with an outboard 
motor that can be purchased for as little as $2,000 in almost any 
Yemeni port. But after what occurred here this month, the houri may 
never look the same again, at least to those who grieve for the 17 
American sailors killed in the suicide bombing attack on the destroyer 
Cole. The houri is a low broad-beamed fishing boat, 15 to 25 feet 
long, made of white fiberglass, with wood seats and an outboard motor. 
Some have high prows, and others broad flat ones. According to Yemeni 
investigators, a houri, or a craft much like it, was used in the Cole 
attack. The investigators cite shards of fiberglass and wood found 
on the Cole and accounts by sailors on watch on the destroyer at the 
time of the attack. Houris are everywhere on the 1,500-mile coastline 
of Yemen. They are so numerous in the main fishing port at Sirah Island, 
across the Aden Peninsula from where the Cole has lain listing since 
the blast, that visitors can arrange to buy one in five minutes, with 
no questions about the buyer's identity or purpose. Along the shore, 
fishermen mix chagrin and inhibition as they discuss the attack. But 
there was also something else widely found since the bombing _ a halting, 
half-expressed sense of astonishment, sometimes of satisfaction and 
even pleasure, that a mighty power, the United States, should have 
had its Navy humbled by two Arab men in a motorized skiff like a houri. 
In Washington, the question is how the United States, with its formidable 
power and worldwide responsibilities, can increase its chances of 
foiling attacks like the one on the Cole. But a visit to Sirah and 
what it suggested about the ease with which the Cole bombers might 
have been able to take one of the first steps in their plan _buying 
the boat _ underscored just how difficult finding answers would be. 
``You have big boats, and look, they are nothing!'' a 17-year-old 
who gave his name as Mohsen said as he looked out at the Cole's hull. 
Remarks like that one, from old and young, from men calloused from 
lifetimes spent stevedoring to unemployed youngsters playing at open-air 
pool tables, reflect a perception of something frequently debated 
in war colleges in the United States. A cause of sneaking pride in 
the developing world as much as it is a source of anguish in the West, 
it is called ``asymmetrical warfare,'' or simply the potential of 
small ideologically impassioned groups to surprise and overwhelm an 
enemy with far greater technology and firepower. It is an ancient 
concept, tracing its origins as far back as the Old Testament account 
of David's killing Goliath. Long before the Cole, the principle had 
forced its way back into the forefront of concern among American security 
and intelligence specialists after a series of terrorist attacks. 
Sirah, overlooked by an ancient Arab fort, teems with lithe quick-eyed 
fishermen with boot-brush mustaches who go to sea in cotton skirts 
called futas, the villager's everyday dress. At dawn and dusk, they 
shuttle from their boats to a market, clutching the day's catch of 
tuna and snapper, as well as rarer species found in the tropical waters 
between Aden and the Horn of Africa. After haggling with fish traders, 
the boatmen settle down, cross-legged, for sugary tea and gossip at 
Al Sayaad, a fishermen's cafe. For a visitor at Sirah, a tentative 
deal to buy a 25-foot houri along with a 75-horsepower outboard was 
completed in the time needed to drink just a cup of the tea. After 
hasty negotiations, the price was set at 925,000 rials, or $5,150. 
The seller, Mohammed Awad, seemed unconcerned about the buyer's identity 
or purpose. ``It'll be no problem,'' he said. ``You want the boat, 
you have it. You can be fishing in an hour.'' Not everything in the 
Cole attack can have been so simple. American officials here have 
said the attackers were well financed, with patience to prepare the 
bombing over weeks or months and enough help to rent or buy at least 
five safe houses, a four-wheel-drive vehicle and a boat trailer and 
mobile telephones. Building the bomb was not child's play. American 
officials have said it was a highly sophisticated ``shaped charge,'' 
housed in a heavy steel that directed the blast with sufficient power 
to penetrate the Cole's half-inch reinforced steel hull, designed 
to withstand a force of 50,000 pounds a square inch, according to 
the Navy. President Ali Abdullah Saleh of Yemen has said ``specialized 
American agencies'' had told him that the explosive, described by 
Yemeni officials as C4, was legally available only in the United States 
and Israel, as well as in one Arab country and one ``Islamic country,'' 
neither of which Saleh named. When it came to installing the bomb 
in the boat, a carpenter and a welder from Aden are among at least 
60 people reportedly suspected in the investigation. The welder, working 
at a safe house, is widely believed to have helped fashion the covering 
needed to direct the explosive power. The carpenter is said to have 
confessed to building wood housing, possibly a false floor, to conceal 
the bomb. If the boat was a houri, that would not have posed major 
problems. Houris, though small, have a relatively deep draft, capable 
of carrying more than a ton and a half of fish, tackle and spare fuel 
beneath the slatted seats, according to the boat chandler on Sirah. 
Initial accounts by American officials put the quantity of explosives 
used against the Cole at the equivalent of 400 to 700 pounds of TNT. 
Subsequent accounts have suggested that the bomb might have been far 
larger. Saleh's contention has been that the entire enterprise had 
to have been carried out by terrorists with bases outside Yemen, men 
whom he described as ``Arab Afghans,'' meaning veterans of the Muslim 
guerrilla struggle in the 1980s that drove Soviet forces from Afghanistan. 
As the Federal Bureau of Investigation completed its examination Friday 
of the Cole and shore sites possibly used by the bombers and began 
sending home some agents, American officials here and in Washington 
continued to say a likely suspect was Osama bin Laden, son of a billionaire 
Saudi Arabian construction magnate who has inspired and directed a 
worldwide ``holy war'' against the United States. But the officials 
remained cautious, saying proof had yet to be found. ``We're not confirming 
such a link exists,'' an FBI spokesman, Jim Margolin, said in Washington. 
In the light of some of Saleh's statements, experts speculated that 
the FBI might be closer to identifying the culprits than it has announced. 
For the fishermen of Sirah, the thought of what happened to the sailors 
on the Cole and the billion-dollar ship packed with 21st-century technology, 
has a sobering resonance. ``Most of our talk here is fish talk,'' 
said Nasir Sabaa, 58, a fish trader. ``But we think of the men who 
died, too, and we are very sorry. It is bad for America. But it is 
bad for Yemen, too, because the terrorists who want to destroy you 
want to destroy Yemen, as well.''