THE SENATE SUPPORT FOR GOVERNOR'S WIDOW She is not on the Missouri 
ballot for the U.S. Senate. And she has given no indication that she 
would serve if appointed. But a campaign to put Jean Carnahan in the 
Senate is nevertheless well under way, with support groups forming, 
one rally already held, more planned and e-mail messages that promote 
her flying in every direction. Jean Carnahan is the widow of Gov. 
Mel Carnahan of Missouri, a popular Democrat killed earlier this month 
in a plane crash while campaigning to unseat Sen. John Ashcroft, a 
Republican. His death came too late in the campaign to put a substitute 
Democrat on the ballot. Should Mel Carnahan win, and polls taken in 
the past few days indicate the race is a tossup, the new governor, 
Roger Wilson, a Democrat and Carnahan's lieutenant governor, has promised 
to appoint Jean Carnahan to serve for her husband. Jean Carnahan says 
it is too soon to commit to anything, and Missouri Republicans question 
the legality of the plan. SUDDENLY, TOSSUPS New polls indicate that 
the Senate races in Virginia and Michigan, once one-sided, are now 
tossups. In Virginia, a Mason-Dixon survey taken this week found the 
incumbent Democrat, Sen. Charles Robb, had closed to within 3 percentage 
points of his Republican challenger, former Gov. George Allen. For 
almost two years, Allen had enjoyed a comfortable lead in the polls 
over Robb. But in recent weeks, Robb has steadily closed the gap, 
thanks mainly to gains among women. In Michigan, an EPIC/MRA poll 
taken this week found that Rep. Debbie Stabenow, a Democrat, had pulled 
even with the Republican incumbent, Spencer Abraham, after trailing 
him for months. Two weeks ago, an EPIC/MRA poll found her 10 points 
behind. She and Abraham together have spent more than $16 million 
on the contest. GORE AND THE RAP STAR In Vice President Al Gore's 
latest appeal to young voters, he sat for an interview with Queen 
Latifah, a rap singer and syndicated talk-show host whose audience 
is chiefly between 18 and 24. In the interview, to be broadcast on 
Wednesday, Queen Latifah, whose real name is Dana E. Owens, gave Gore 
a ``pop-culture quiz,'' asking if he had ever worn leather pants. 
``I don't think I have,'' he said. But he had a leather vest for riding 
his Harley, he said. Ever been caught speeding? ``I don't think I 
ever got caught speeding on my motorcycle,'' Gore answered. ``Certainly 
I got caught speeding in my car when I was younger. But that wasn't 
to say I wasn't speeding sometimes on my motorcycle. I look back on 
those days, and I feel like I'm very lucky to have survived.'' Then 
he added: ``Once, on a dare, we went double-dating on my motorcycle.'' 
At the time, he went on, he was wearing a tuxedo. Did he get pulled 
over? ``Actually, there was a blue light,'' Gore answered. ``And I 
can't say for sure that they were coming after us, but just on the 
chance that they were, we cut through an alleyway.'' And finally: 
``On a woman, leather or lace?'' Gore mulled for a moment, then answered: 
``Lace.'' UNION DOLLARS FOR GORE The political action committee of 
New York state's largest health-care union sent a $1 million check 
to the Democratic National Committee this week to bolster the campaign 
of Vice President Al Gore. The contribution, by 1199/SEIU, New York's 
Health and Human Service Union, followed an earlier donation of $1 
million to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and a $600,000 
donation to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. `We are 
alarmed about the prospect of having George Bush as the next president 
and about the impact that will have on the labor movement,'' said 
Dennis Rivera, president of 1199, a division of the Service Employees 
International Union. ASSISTED-SUICIDE VOTE Residents of Maine vote 
next month on a ballot initiative that would allow very ill patients 
of sound mind to ask their doctors for medication to help them die. 
The latest poll on the Oregon-style proposal, conducted last weekend 
by by Strategic Marketing Services, found the electorate evenly divided, 
43.5 percent for, 43.5 percent against and the rest undecided. In 
mid-September, a poll by the same company found that 67 percent of 
the state's voters supported the initiative. States like Michigan, 
where a similar initiative was defeated in 1998, have seen a similar 
dynamic as Election Day approaches. Some analysts say it may be because 
people support assisted suicide in general, but become troubled by 
the details of any particular law. TRAVEL LOG Vice President Al Gore 
spent Friday searching for votes in Pennsylvania, while Gov. George 
W. Bush boarded a bus for the second time this week and worked Michigan. 
The numbers: Length of official day: Gore, 16 hours; Bush 13{ hours 
States visited: Gore, 2; Bush, 3 Official Events: Gore, 5; Bush 6 
Cities/towns visited: Gore, 5 (Charlestown, W.V.; Pittsburgh, Homestead, 
Allentown and Wilkes-Barre, Pa.); Bush, 6 (Toledo, Ohio; Kalamazoo, 
Benton Harbor, Battle Creek and Farmington Hills, Mich., and South 
Bend, Ind.) Miles traveled: Gore, 456; Bush, 348 Main message: Gore, 
the economy; Bush, responsible leadership SATURDAY'S SCHEDULES PAT 
BUCHANAN: Phoenix GEORGE W. BUSH: Appleton, Wis., and Columbia, Mo. 
DICK CHENEY: Appleton, Wis., and Davenport, Iowa. AL GORE: Wilkes-Barre, 
Pa.; Minneapolis, Minn., and Dearborn, Mich JOSEPH LIEBERMAN: Portland, 
Ore., and Dearborn, Mich. RALPH NADER: Philadelphia, Newark, N.J., 
and New York