A Boston paper carried an appropriate headline to describe last night's 
dual of the candidates - World War I. In the first of 3 debates Vice 
President Al Gore and Texas Governor George W. Bush argued about taxes, 
social security, medicare, prescription drug benefits and abortion. 
But if you are hoping for either man to articulate a vision of America's 
place in the world, you probably came away disappointed. The World's 
Jeb Sharp reports. The debate only touched lightly on foreign policy 
reflecting a trend that has been developing since the end of the cold 
war. According to Allan Schroeder, author of the new book Presidential 
Debates - 40 years of high risk TV. If you go back to 1960, Kennedy 
and Nixon spent a lot of those four debates they had that year talking 
specifically about the cold war issues and in 76 and in 80 more, you 
know, toward the end of cold war there was still quite an emphasis 
on foreign policy and the tradition was that you would do at least 
one debate devoted to foreign policy. In more recent years, the candidates 
have backed away from that. Still, the candidates did have to face 
a couple of direct foreign policy questions from moderator Jim Lara. 
Vice President Gore, President Milosevic of Yugoslavia refuses to 
accept the election results and leave office. What action, if any, 
should the United States take to get him out of there? Gore's answer 
and Bush's rebuttal were similar in same ways. Both praised the results 
of the Serbian elections, said it was time for Milosevic to go and 
recommended diplomatic pressure to help him on his way. Neither advocated 
military action. Bush went a step further by recommending Russia take 
a lead role in urging Milosevic to step aside. Gore disagreed saying 
the United States might not like the outcome if it where to invite 
the Russians in. Jim Lara followed up with another foreign policy 
question for Governor Bush and a slip of the tongue. How would you 
go about as President deciding when it was in the national interest 
to use US force, General? Governor, not General Bush, said vital national 
interest must be at stake in order to justify military intervention. 
I would take the use of force very seriously. I would be guarded in 
my approach. I don't think we can be all things to all people in the 
world. I think we got to be very careful when we commit our troops. 
The Vice President and I have big disagreement about the use of troops. 
He believes in nation building. I would be very careful about using 
our troops as nation builders. I believe the role of the military 
is to fight and win war and therefore prevent war from happening in 
the first place. Gore responded with a somewhat different emphasis. 
I think we should be reluctant to get involved in some place in a 
foreign country. But if our national security is at stake, if we have 
allies, if we have tried every other course, if we are sure military 
action will succeed and if the costs are proportionate to the benefits, 
we should get involved. Now just because we don't want to get involved 
everywhere it does not mean we should back off anywhere it comes up. 
Many of last night's exchanges seemed designed to score political 
points but this one simply demonstrated a subtle but significant foreign 
policy difference between the two candidates. While both men appeared 
reluctant to get involved in peace keeping operations, Vice President 
Al Gore seemed less likely to rule the option out. For The World, 
I am Jeb Sharp.