Hillary Rodham Clinton accused Rick A. Lazio on Saturday of exploiting 
``for political gain'' the fatal terrorist attack on the destroyer 
Cole in Yemen, after the state Republican Party acknowledged it was 
paying for a telephone campaign in which New Yorkers are told that 
Clinton took money from ``a Mideast terrorism group _ the same kind 
of terrorism that killed our sailors on the USS Cole.'' The contributions 
to Clinton's campaign came from a fund-raiser sponsored by the American 
Muslim Alliance. Clinton returned the money, $50,000, after the committee's 
leader was quoted as condoning violence against Israel to advance 
the battle for a Palestinian state. American investigators have said 
that they strongly believe terrorists were behind the Oct. 12 bombing 
attack on the Cole, in which 17 sailors died, but there has been no 
indication that the explosion was connected to any organization that 
gave money to Clinton. In Ithaca on Saturday, where Clinton began 
a three-day bus tour across New York, the first lady somberly denounced 
Lazio for the telephone campaign, and urged him to apologize to the 
families of the slain sailors. ``I went to that memorial service,'' 
she said. ``I met those families. I just really never thought I would 
see this kind of tactic used. It is beyond anything I have ever heard 
of, and I have heard of some pretty terrible techniques and tactics 
during campaigns in the past. This hits a new low.'' Television coverage 
of the memorial service for the sailors, which Clinton attended with 
the president in Norfolk, Va., showed the first lady crying much of 
the time. Lazio's aides said on Saturday that state Republican leaders 
had not consulted them before beginning the telephone campaign. But 
state party leaders, and Lazio, stood by the telephone campaign, asserting 
that it was fair and denying Clinton's assertion that they were injecting 
a national tragedy into what is the most closely watched Senate race 
in the nation this year. ``I don't think we need any instructions 
or lessons from the Arkansas political machine that Clinton affiliates 
with,'' Lazio said after a rally at a high school on Long Island. 
``We don't need any advice from Harold Ickes and Hillary Clinton on 
how to run a campaign in New York, especially from people who are 
forced to return $50,000 to people who associate themselves with violence 
in the Middle East.'' Ickes is a senior adviser to Clinton. Reports 
of the telephone calls, and the harsh exchange between the two candidates 
on Saturday, came as the race for the Senate entered its final 10 
days, with polls showing it to be an extremely close contest. Saturday's 
exchange was the toughest yet between Clinton and Lazio, and signaled 
what aides to both sides said would be a bitter finale to what has 
been a surprisingly restrained contest. The Republican Party's use 
of the telephone calls was first reported on Saturday in The New York 
Post, and on the ABC News Web page. The remarks about Clinton and 
the Cole were told to New Yorkers as part of one of at least two telephone 
campaigns being financed by the Republican Party. One campaign is 
directed at Jewish voters and the other to non-Jewish voters. A spokesman 
for the state Republican Party, Dan Allen, declined on Saturday to 
say how many people were being called, but he said the effort was 
extensive. He also said that neither campaign constituted push-polling, 
a practice in which telephone workers pose as pollsters, calling voters 
and asking questions that are intended to spread damaging or false 
information about an opponent. In both campaigns, Allen said, workers 
state at the beginning that the telephone call is being made on behalf 
of the Republican Party. In the call to Jewish voters, Allen said, 
the caller asks, for example: ``Did you know that before Clinton started 
her run for our U.S. Senate seat, she supported a Palestinian state 
and didn't support moving the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem?'' In the 
call to non-Jewish voters, the caller says that Clinton accepted money 
from an organization that ``openly brags about its support for a Mideast 
terrorism group, the same kind of terrorism that killed our sailors 
on the USS Cole.'' Allen said that the chairman of the state Republican 
Party, William Powers, thought that that line was fair because the 
group referred to, Hamas, was the same kind of organization that investigators 
say might be behind the attack on the Cole. ``This is something that 
Clinton is upset about,'' Allen said. ``But it's something she has 
to answer for.'' Clinton's aides clearly viewed the telephone campaign 
as a political misstep, coming during a critical stretch of the campaign, 
and moved quickly to turn it to their advantage. Former New York City 
Mayor Edward Koch was dispatched to City Hall to hold a news conference 
denouncing Lazio, while the campaign sent out a statement from Sen. 
John Kerry, D-Mass., a veteran of the Vietnam War, asserting that 
Lazio had turned the Cole tragedy into part of ``a political smear 
operation.'' Lazio's campaign, meanwhile, moved on Saturday to turn 
the attention back on Clinton, noting that in her filing with the 
Federal Election Commission, she identified Abdurahman Alamoudi, a 
board member of the American Muslim Council who gave her $1,000, as 
a member of the ``American Museum Council.'' Alamoudi has been quoted 
in interviews as making statements sympathetic to Hamas, a militant 
group that advocates violence against Israel. A news release put out 
by Lazio's campaign quoted Gov. George Pataki, a Republican, as assailing 
Clinton, saying: `` Clinton should say why she filed this under the 
American Museum Council, and not the American Muslim Council.'' A 
spokesman for Clinton, Howard Wolfson, said the mistake was a typographical 
error. ``Congressman Lazio will say anything to avoid taking responsibility 
for these phone calls.''