Ivory Coast's new government pledged Saturday to track down the killers 
of dozens of young men whose bodies were found dumped in a field _ 
men who opposition officials and witnesses say were executed by government 
security forces. The gruesome discovery of the 55 bodies Friday, and 
the allegations that the country's paramilitary police could be involved, 
cast a shadow over the new government. Less than a week after an uprising 
drove the military ruler from power and only two days after street 
fighting here ended, the reports also fueled the uneasiness that regularly 
sparks rumors of renewed violence in Abidjan, Ivory Coast's main city. 
The corpses all appeared to be young men who had been shot. They were 
still tangled grotesquely on top of one another Saturday in a field 
surrounded by forest on the edge of Abidjan's Yopougon neighborhood. 
Twisted at obscene angles, most of the bodies were naked or only partially 
clothed. Officials in white gowns, rubber boots and plastic gloves 
sorted through the corpses as the country's new interior minister 
arrived in a large motorcade, accompanied by soldiers and paramilitary 
police. ``I am ashamed of what we are seeing here,'' said the minister, 
Emile Boga Doudou, a surgical mask to ward off the stench hanging 
around his neck. ``The police must do their work to find the author 
of this atrocity.'' But to followers of opposition leader Alassane 
Dramane Ouattara, who say those dumped in the field were fellow members 
of his Rally of the Republicans party, Ivorian authorities cannot 
be trusted to investigate the crime. ``It is security forces that 
killed them,'' said Amadou Coulibaly, a party spokesman. He said at 
least 155 Ouattara supporters have been killed in Abidjan since Wednesday, 
and at least 22 in other Ivorian cities. Those numbers could not be 
independently confirmed. Coulibaly said that in Abidjan, some of those 
killed were grabbed by militant supporters of newly installed President 
Laurent Gbagbo, handed over to security forces and not seen again 
until their corpses were spotted in the pile. Area residents backed 
up his account, saying on condition of anonymity that Gbagbo militants, 
backed by paramilitary police and soldiers, had forced their way into 
the homes of Ouattara's most ardent followers, beating young men and 
hauling them away. ``They broke down the door,'' said one man, a taxi 
driver who said six of his relatives were taken away by Gbagbo supporters 
backed by security forces. The driver escaped by fleeing the house. 
The discovery of the bodies followed three days of violence that drove 
out military junta leader Gen. Robert Guei and then turned to fighting 
between rival opposition forces. The unrest has left some 200 people 
dead. Guei had claimed victory in Ivory Coast's Oct. 22 presidential 
election, a vote that was dogged by fraud and unfair competition charges. 
In less than a day, he saw power slip from his grasp as thousands 
of demonstrators took to the streets. Later joined by security forces, 
they swept Gbagbo, who ran against Guei in the election, to power. 
Gbagbo's victory, though, set off another round of unrest as Ouattara's 
supporters launched protests to call for new elections. Those protests 
led to even more violence, with political fighting turning into horrific 
sectarian attacks. Gbagbo's mostly southern Christian supporters battled 
Ouattara's followers, most of them northern Muslims. Ouattara was 
thought to have more support than Gbagbo, but he was barred from Sunday's 
vote by the Supreme Court, as were other opposition figures.