Let's go to Russia right now Joe, where Vladimir Putin who still remains 
something of an enigmatic presence in the Russian political scene 
since he took office at the beginning of the year 2000, is apparently 
under siege yet again by revelations that the Russians might possibly 
have been able to rescue those trapped sailors in the Kursk submarine 
because some of them evidently survived and it's apparent that the 
Russian military suppressed information about what had happened or 
even distorted it, and was singularly slow in taking up offers of 
assistance from the Norwegians and the British to help. What impact 
do you think this new revelation has on Putin's political stature? 
Oh, I think it is another step in a diminution of Putin. I think a 
number of things have happened; his attempt to restore the image of 
Russia as a great power has been, I think backfired generally, the 
he plunged Milosevic long after it was clear that he was finished. 
He has tried to form a strategic relationship with China and India, 
but this I think has reflected in a much more dramatic way, the weakness 
of Putin. After all, you've got to remember that when the Kursk went 
down, he was on vacation in the Black Sea and didn't bother even to 
come back to Moscow, let alone going to Mermonsk at the scene of the 
disaster and they held back for days before they requested help from 
Norwegian and British experts and those kind of thing, and I think 
that there is a sense that it may have contributed to the disaster. 
Tom, what's the thinking in the administration of Putin's performance 
so far? Very disappointing. Putin, it's clear he is no new style democrat, 
to put it mildly. This is a man who still behaves like a KGB operator 
rather than a ... Which, of course, he was. Yeah, for many, many years 
at a high level, than a President of a country trying to grapple with 
democracy. I think the Clinton administration it was hopeful for Boris 
Yeltsin and then it got disappointed in Yeltsin and then they thought 
that reluctantly Mr. Putin was a man that they could do business with, 
to coin former Prime Minister of Britain Margaret Thatcher's phrase 
about Mikhail Gorbachov. But Putin is disappointing the United States 
government. They won't say that of course, but he has turned out to 
be a disappointment. And I agree with Joe, I think these latest revelations 
that 23 sailors on the Kursk survived several days and theoretically 
might have been saved, had the Russians gotten off the dime and asked 
for help sooner, I think are devastating. And David, I think it's 
important the views that I think is gaining headway in the administration 
and voiced generally is that Putin is a bureaucrat and he runs the 
government in a bureaucratic kind of way and that it has no chance 
whatever of rebuilding the Russian economy and the Russian political 
stability, and that a continuing decline appears to be in the cards 
for Russia under his leadership.