Using descriptions from fishermen and other witnesses, Yemeni investigators 
have created composite sketches of two suspects in the USS Cole bombing, 
sources close to the investigation said Saturday. The sketches will 
be sent to Egypt and Saudi Arabia, where they will be checked against 
photographs of Arab veterans of the anti-Soviet rebellion in Afghanistan, 
the sources said on condition of anonymity. The Oct. 12 attack on 
the Cole killed 17 U.S. sailors and wounded 39 others in the port 
of Aden. Officials believe two suicide bombers maneuvered a small 
boat next to the destroyer and detonated explosives. Yemen's president 
has said one of the two suspects was identified by witnesses as an 
Egyptian and that a number of Arab fighters from the Afghanistan war 
have been detained in connection with the blast. The sources said 
artists from the Yemeni capital, San`a, drew the sketches based on 
conversations with fishermen whom the two suspects had quizzed about 
comings and goings of ships in the harbor. The artists also spoke 
to landlords of at least three properties where the men prepared for 
the bombing, and to a 12-year-old boy that one suspect paid to watch 
his car before the blast. Witnesses have described the two suspects 
as well-built and said one had a beard and wore glasses. Also Saturday, 
retired U.S. Army Gen. William W. Crouch and retired Navy Adm. Harold 
W. Gehman Jr. arrived in Aden to review military procedures, protection 
and intelligence gathering in Yemen, the U.S. Defense Department said 
in a statement. The review will be conducted separately, but in coordination 
with, an FBI-led investigation. Crouch and Gehman toured the Cole, 
but refused to talk to reporters about their mission. The damaged 
Cole is still docked in Aden. It is to be carried back to the United 
States on a special ``heavy-lift'' ship that is expected to reach 
the port by Sunday. If terrorism is proved, the bombing would be the 
deadliest attack on the U.S. military since 19 Air Force personnel 
died in a 1996 truck bomb explosion in Saudi Arabia. Also Saturday, 
Yemeni Interior Minister Hussein Mohammed Arab said it has not been 
established whether the Egyptian suspect belongs to Al Qaeda. That 
group is led by Osama Bin Laden, the Saudi millionaire singled out 
by the United States as a terrorist leader. Speaking in Saudi Arabia, 
Arab said the investigations have ``achieved great positive results.'' 
He also said no Saudi nationals took part in the bombing. Yemeni security 
are handling the investigation, Arab said, and ``the Americans have 
no interference'' in the probe, ``except for some questions that they 
could pose to Yemeni investigators who in turn perform the investigations,'' 
he said. Arab's remarks were the most detailed the Yemenis have offered 
on the U.S role in the probe. His comments came a day after U.S. Secretary 
of State Madeleine Albright and FBI Director Louis Freeh appealed 
in a joint statement for greater cooperation from the Yemeni government. 
A senior U.S. official in Aden said Saturday that the Americans are 
not displeased with the Yemenis' level of cooperation.