The state Republican Committee said Sunday that its telephone campaign 
on behalf of Rick Lazio's Senate bid would no longer include calls 
that referred to the bombing of the USS Cole to try to suggest that 
some of Hillary Rodham Clinton's donors supported terrorism. The calls 
including that reference, which Clinton had harshly criticized as 
politicizing a tragedy, ended sometime Saturday after the chairman 
of the party, William Powers, determined the script had run its course 
and not because of the criticism, a spokesman for Powers said. The 
spokesman, Dan Allen, said Powers felt it had reached enough voters, 
though he could not provide an estimate for how many people had been 
called. Altogether, a broader telephone campaign, which began Thursday 
and was to continue for an undisclosed time, was expected to reach 
500,000 people. State party officials say the telephone campaign will 
continue with other calls, including some aimed at Jewish voters that 
question Clinton's commitment to Israel. Clinton, campaigning in Rochester 
Sunday with Sen. Charles Schumer, said the decision to end the calls 
referring to the Cole bombing was not good enough. She repeated her 
demand of Saturday that Lazio and the Republican Party ``do the honorable 
thing and apologize.'' Lazio refused on Saturday and then again Sunday, 
saying the Clinton campaign was trying to deflect attention from questionable 
donations. ``That is so typical,'' Clinton said of the GOP decision, 
``They should have stopped the calls yesterday when they were caught 
making those calls. They should clearly take responsibility, as should 
Mr. Lazio. I believe both Congressman Lazio and the state Republican 
Party still owe an apology to the families that lost their sons and 
daughters and loved ones on the USS Cole.'' Both Jews and non-Jews 
have received calls. The pitch to non-Jews included a line saying 
Clinton accepted money from an organization that ``openly brags about 
its support for a Mideast terrorism group _ the same kind of terrorism 
that killed our sailors on the USS Cole.'' The reference is to contributions 
Clinton accepted from leaders of the American Muslim Alliance at a 
fund-raiser in Boston in June. Clinton returned the money, $50,000, 
after learning that the group's leader was quoted as defending a United 
Nations resolution he interpreted as allowing Palestinians to take 
up arms against Israel. American investigators say the Oct. 12 explosion 
on the Cole, which killed 17 sailors, was most likely caused by terrorists 
but they have not linked the blast to any organization. The calls 
to Jewish voters, Allen said, asked if they knew that before Clinton 
entered the Senate race last year she ``supported a Palestinian state 
and didn't support moving the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem?'' Clinton 
said in June 1999 that she wanted the embassy moved as soon as possible, 
and has said she supports a Palestinian state as part of a broad peace 
plan for the region. Allen said the change in the script did not have 
anything to do with criticism of the content, saying instead that 
the party is always reviewing and ``tinkering'' with scripts. Future 
calls, state party officials say, will raise questions about Clinton's 
positions on health care, taxes and other subjects. The change came 
to light through Lazio, who after speaking at Abyssinian Baptist Church 
in Harlem, told reporters in response to questions about the calls 
referring to the Cole, ``I don't think they're going to continue to 
make those phone calls.'' A spokesman for Lazio, Patrick McCarthy, 
said the congressman, who has denied his campaign is involved in the 
phone drive, had heard about the change ``through the grapevine.'' 
Lazio refused to answer questions on whether it was appropriate to 
use the Cole in the telephone campaign. But he sought to keep the 
focus on Clinton's accepting what he has termed ``blood money.'' ``The 
Clinton campaign is desperately trying to change the subject that 
they received donations, and Mrs. Clinton attended a fund-raiser, 
involving people that were supportive of the idea of using violence 
and murder as a tool to achieve political ends,'' Lazio said.