The sixth U.S. warship damaged by hostile action in the Middle East 
in 33 years, the destroyer USS Cole also is the second to return home 
riding piggyback on a larger vessel. The technique was previously 
used in 1988 to transport the missile frigate USS Samuel B. Roberts 
after it was nearly sunk by an Iranian mine in the Persian Gulf. The 
carrier that time was a chartered Dutch cargo vessel. Over the weekend, 
the 8,600-ton Cole was towed from its mooring in Aden's harbor to 
an offshore rendezvous with the Norwegian heavy-lift ship Blue Marlin 
and the start of its 6,000-mile trip back to the East Coast. The Cole, 
one of the Navy's most advanced combat ships, was refueling at Aden 
on Oct. 12 when an explosives-laden suicide boat blasted a hole in 
its side, killing 17 sailors and injuring 39. Two terrorists on the 
boat also apparently perished. In saving their wounded ship, the Cole's 
crew evoked memories of the Roberts and a sister ship, USS Stark, 
both victims of hostile action during the Iraq-Iran ``tanker war'' 
in the Persian Gulf in the late 1980s. At 3,700 tons less than half 
the Cole's size, with less armor, and alone at sea when attacked, 
the two frigates were even luckier to survive. The Stark was patrolling 
Gulf waters the night of May 17, 1987, when hit by two French-made 
Exocet anti-ship missiles fired by an Iraqi warplane hunting Iranian 
tankers. The attack killed 37 sailors, some in their bunks. Crewmen 
quelled raging fires and the crippled ship was towed to port, where 
it was repaired enough to return home under its own power. Iraq apologized, 
but the incident spurred the United States to bolster its tiny Gulf 
naval force and provide convoy escort for reflagged Kuwaiti oil tankers. 
Eleven months later, on April 14, 1988, the Roberts stumbled into 
an Iranian minefield in mid-Gulf and was gingerly backing out when 
a blast ruptured its keel, hurled twin gas turbine engines off their 
mounts and wounded 10 crewmen. Working in darkness, crewmen saved 
the Roberts by lashing its nearly severed hull together with steel 
cables. The skipper, Cmdr. Paul X. Rinn, and his sailors were hailed 
as heroes who rewrote the book on damage control. In a one-day war 
of retaliation, the United States destroyed two oil platforms and 
sank or crippled six gunboats used by Iran to attack Gulf shipping. 
After two months in a Dubai drydock, the Roberts was piggybacked on 
the Dutch cargo ship Mighty Servant 2 and taken back to Maine, where 
it was rebuilt for $90 million. Like the Stark, it returned to duty 
a year later. Innovations in tools, techniques and training resulting 
from those incidents may have helped save the Cole, said Cmdr. Greg 
Smith, a Navy spokesman. ``It's too soon to know exactly what, but 
the Navy never fails to take advantage of lessons learned in such 
cases,'' he said. Like the Mighty Servant 2, the 56,000-ton Blue Marlin 
is a state-of-the-art heavy-lift ship, with a 584-foot main deck that 
can be submerged 32 feet to take on a floating cargo. The Cole, 466 
feet long, was to be put aboard on Monday for a trip that could take 
five weeks, officials said. The Blue Marlin, owned by an Oslo firm, 
recently delivered several small minesweepers to the U.S. 5th Fleet 
in the Persian Gulf, and was in Dubai when given a $4.5 million Navy 
contract to transport the destroyer back to the United States. In 
addition to Roberts and Stark, U.S. warships damaged by hostilities 
in the Middle East include the spy ship USS Liberty, attacked by Israel 
in the Mediterranean during the 1967 Six-Day War, and the missile 
cruiser USS Princeton and mine warfare support ship USS Inchon, both 
victims of minor mine damage during the 1991 Gulf War. The Cole may 
go back to the Mississippi shipyard where it was built, or another 
facility in Maine. It could cost $150 million to repair the $1 billion 
warship, the Navy says.