Her words have been dissected and her public actions have been under 
a microscope. But Jean Carnahan has remained closemouthed about whether 
she will accept an appointment to the U.S. Senate if her late husband 
receives more votes than his GOP rival. On Monday, Jean Carnahan was 
scheduled to officially make a decision after a weekend spent at her 
farm outside Rolla surrounded by family and friends. ``It's a decision 
she needs to make with her family,'' Marc Farinella, Mel Carnahan's 
campaign manager, said Sunday. And Farinella said a ``yes'' decision 
was no certainty. ``We all hope Jean agrees to do this. But we would 
certainly understand if she chooses not to. She has been through so 
much and it is asking a great deal,'' he said. Missouri's 66-year-old 
governor, the Carnahans' eldest son Roger, 44, and Carnahan adviser 
Chris Sifford, 37, died Oct. 16 when a small plane piloted by Roger 
Carnahan crashed outside St. Louis. Attention has focused on Mrs. 
Carnahan's public composure, measured statements and dignity since 
the crash, including urging mourners at Sifford's funeral last weekend: 
``Don't let the fire go out.'' Gov. Roger Wilson offered Mrs. Carnahan, 
66, who has never run for or held elected office, an appointment as 
senator if Mel Carnahan outpolls Republican incumbent John Ashcroft. 
Media polls released during the weekend, and taken after Mel Carnahan's 
burial, showed the Senate race still statistically tied, as it had 
been for months. A Zogby International poll conducted for the St. 
Louis Post-Dispatch and St. Louis television station KMOV had Mel 
Carnahan with 47.2 percent support against 45.4 percent backing for 
Ashcroft, a result within the poll's margin of error of plus or minus 
four percentage points. But Mel Carnahan's lead grew, 49.4 percent 
to 44.3 percent, after participants in the Zogby polls were told of 
Wilson's plan to name Jean Carnahan if her late husband wins the race. 
Carnahan fans weren't waiting on the widow. Volunteers converged on 
Mel Carnahan's St. Louis campaign headquarters during the weekend 
to distribute 780,000 lapel buttons proclaiming, ``I'm Still With 
Mel.'' Carnahan's name remains on the ballot because state officials 
said he died after a deadline for removing it. Farinella said Mel 
Carnahan's campaign was paying for the buttons and their distribution. 
The campaign canceled all of its scheduled TV advertising, receiving 
refunds of more than $1 million, he said. The prospect of Jean Carnahan 
stepping in for her late husband has drawn mixed but intense reaction 
from voters. Some say it's wrong to impose on her grief. Others suggest 
there are better qualified appointees. Republicans accuse Wilson of 
playing on sympathy to help Democrats, a charge Wilson has called 
``demeaning'' to the Carnahan family. Announcing his offer to Mrs. 
Carnahan, Wilson said: ``I knew from the first time I thought about 
it ... there is no other person who has been near all of the critical 
issues'' that were important to Mel Carnahan, her husband of 46 years. 
``Husbands and wives, they stand together, and she will keep going 
with what Mel Carnahan would have wanted to do,'' said Bobbi Slate, 
29, a laundry clerk from Columbia. But Tony Garcia, 62, a retired 
plant superintendent, said it's unthinkable to vote for a dead person 
over a living candidate with a long record like Ashcroft. ``How can 
we not vote for someone who can represent the state?'' asked Garcia, 
of Columbia. ``I'm sure Jean Carnahan is a great lady, but that vote 
for her late husband doesn't make any sense.'' ___ On the Net: Ashcroft 
campaign: http://www.johnashcroft.com Carnahan campaign: http://www.carnahan2000.com