With its running tableau of disasters, both man-made and natural, 
Africa in the 1990s has shown an unerring knack for inspiring hand-wringing 
in the outside world and increasing self-doubt among Africans themselves 
about the waste and futility of half a century of independence. Now, 
like an exclamation mark, the century may be closing on the descent 
into chaos of what has long been one of Africa's brightest corners, 
the former French West African country where a deeply flawed election 
last week produced rampaging mobs and ethnically motivated lynching, 
not democratic rule. By week's end, negotiations among the power seekers 
had begun, and an uneasy calm had taken hold. Still, the death toll 
was well over 100. The trouble in Ivory Coast could be seen coming 
for at least five years, visible on the horizon like the darkness 
of a gathering storm. But as predictable as the disputed vote and 
the killings may seem, they were never inevitable. Ivory Coast's crisis 
has its roots in the usual cynicism and blind ambition of politicians, 
but just as surely in the indifference of an onlooking world. Where 
Africa is concerned, it seems, extinguishing fires before they can 
get out of hand is scarcely ever tried. For most Americans, the name 
of this country with 17 million inhabitants means nothing. In fact, 
there are few places in Africa today that could give the world more 
reason to care. For a stretch of countries from Mauritania to Nigeria, 
Ivory Coast, despite its modest size, has been something akin to what 
the United States has often been to Latin America. It has absorbed 
many far poorer neighbors _ more than 25 percent of the population 
is now foreign. With its huge exports of cocoa and coffee, sizable 
industrial base, good roads and working electricity and telephones 
(such things are not taken for granted in Africa, even today), Ivory 
Coast has served as the region's employer, its breadbasket, its banker, 
its educator and its hub. For years, foreigners there have repeated 
the joke about loving to live in the capital, Abidjan, ``because it's 
so convenient to Africa.'' More important, though, this was one of 
those rare African places that had a large and worldly middle class. 
If Ivory Coast's slide goes unchecked, all that will vanish. One need 
only visit Liberia next door, with its skyscrapers full of squatters, 
to see what a gutted capital looks like, and to realize that what 
took generations to build can burn in a blink. Emulation has always 
worked powerfully in Africa politics. In the 1960s, an often well-intentioned 
but ultimately disastrous socialism was in vogue. In the 1970s and 
'80s, leaders began naming themselves president for life. In the mid-1990's, 
with the Rwandan crisis, deadly mobilization along openly ethnic lines 
reared its head, spreading quickly through much of East and Central 
Africa. Even in faraway West Africa, Rwandization has become a familiar 
verb. For several years now, as in Rwanda, politicians have been playing 
to their ethnic bases, with the result that Ivory Coast is now seriously 
divided into three regions of roughly equal size: a Muslim north with 
cultural links to Mali and Burkina Faso, a Christian southeast, which 
has dominated the country's history, and a Christian and animist southwest 
with strong ancestral ties to Liberia and Guinea. If this sounds familiar, 
it should. Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, broke down along 
almost identical lines, leading to the Biafran War in 1967. The fear 
of many Africa watchers is that even worse than the regional economic 
disaster it would occasion, an ethnic explosion of Ivory Coast would 
set a pattern for the region for years to come. In fact, Nigeria is 
facing a resurgence of ethnic violence now. ``An Ivory Coast set ablaze 
by ethnic hatred will light a fire clear across this region,'' said 
one Western diplomat with longtime experience in West Africa. ``The 
only way to prevent it is for the world to engage all of the parties 
there and press them to respect some basic principles, especially 
the principle of compromise.'' Many Africans have been waiting for 
France to lead an international effort to pressure Ivory Coast's factions 
to negotiate. But the wait has been in vain. The United States has 
condemned many of the worst abuses in Ivory Coast, where its interests 
are few. But France, without whose help the former colony's economy 
cannot run, has remained largely silent , providing support and justification 
for leaders even as their abuses have grown more flagrant. While communism 
was falling in Eastern Europe a decade ago, much of Africa was experiencing 
popular revolutions of its own. In Mali, Benin, the Republic of the 
Congo and elsewhere, citizens who organized to demand democracy were 
overthrowing corrupt dictators. With little special outside help or 
attention, many of these early experiments in African democracy quickly 
foundered. But France, the only former colonial power to have maintained 
strong ties to its ex-possessions, worried that the end of personalized 
power under long-ruling dictators would open the region up to influence 
from others, notably the United States, and upset its interests in 
everything from oil fields to military bases. Early in the 1990s, 
Paris decided to stem its losses by backstopping corrupt regimes in 
Ivory Coast, Cameroon and Gabon, resource-rich states that provided 
handsome returns. With the implicit backing of the French President 
Jacques Chirac, who had already said that Africa was ``not ready for 
democracy,'' Henri Konan Bedie, the Ivory Coast leader who took power 
after the death of the country's founder, Felix Houphouet-Boigny, 
in 1993, set out to eliminate his most important rival, a former prime 
minister named Alassane Ouattara. From 1995 until the end of last 
year, when he was overthrown in the country's first coup, Bedie ceaselessly 
improvised at eliminating his rival, a former deputy director of the 
International Monetary Fund. Bedie invented a bogus ideology, called 
Ivoirite, which sought to distinguish purebred citizens, mostly deemed 
to be his own southern Christians, from supposed latecomers, especially 
northern Muslims like Ouattara. This played on long-standing, latent 
hatreds. Bedie's southeastern Akan group had enjoyed the fruits of 
education and ultimately the power that grew out of their early contact 
with French colonizers. The Akan, who saw themselves as natural rulers, 
thought of the Muslim northerners as a ``dirty'' people. The southwesterners 
were disparaged as hotheaded near-savages. France never seemed to 
tire of Bedie, but the Ivoirian people did. Last Christmas Eve he 
was overthrown in an army coup that seemed intended to right his wrongs. 
That is, until the new president, Gen. Robert Guei discovered the 
intoxicating effect of ethnic exclusionism. Soon, he, too, was changing 
the rules to keep Ouattara out. Guei eliminated over a dozen rival 
candidates for the presidency, including those of the two largest 
parties, making a sham of this month's election. Having barred them 
from the race, the unpopular general was surprised to be soundly defeated 
in a low turnout by Laurent Gbagbo, a pioneer of the country's democracy 
movement. After the stunned general sought to proclaim himself president 
anyway, his military government was literally chased from office by 
tens of thousands of supporters of Gbagbo, who now claimed power. 
But in a country badly divided along ethnic lines, this left two-thirds 
of the population dangerously disgruntled and unrepresented, setting 
up the terrifying street confrontations between supporters of Gbagbo 
and Ouattara. While much of the world, from United Nations Secretary-General 
Kofi Annan and the U.S. State Department to South African President 
Thabo Mbeki and the Organization of African Unity, called for new, 
free elections, the French government, which has always seemed more 
preoccupied with African power than with process, rushed to back Gbagbo. 
``Don't expect comments from us that could resemble a show of paternalism 
or lesson-giving,'' said a government spokesman responding to criticism 
by the French press for backing the winner of a bogus election out 
of pure expediency. ``It is not the French role.''