Early in the 1990s, Paris decided to stem its losses by backstopping 
corrupt regimes in Ivory Coast, Cameroon and Gabon, resource-rich 
states that provided handsome returns. With the implicit backing of 
the French President Jacques Chirac, who had already said that Africa 
was ``not ready for democracy,'' Henri Konan Bedie, the Ivory Coast 
leader who took power after the death of the country's founder, Felix 
Houphouet-Boigny, in 1993, set out to eliminate his most important 
rival, a former prime minister named Alassane Ouattara. From 1995 
until the end of last year, when he was overthrown in the country's 
first coup, Bedie ceaselessly improvised at eliminating his rival, 
a former deputy director of the International Monetary Fund. Bedie 
invented a bogus ideology, called Ivoirite, which sought to distinguish 
purebred citizens, mostly deemed to be his own southern Christians, 
from supposed latecomers, especially northern Muslims like Ouattara. 
This played on long-standing, latent hatreds. Bedie's southeastern 
Akan group had enjoyed the fruits of education and ultimately the 
power that grew out of their early contact with French colonizers. 
The Akan, who saw themselves as natural rulers, thought of the Muslim 
northerners as a ``dirty'' people. The southwesterners were disparaged 
as hotheaded near-savages. France never seemed to tire of Bedie, but 
the Ivoirian people did. Last Christmas Eve he was overthrown in an 
army coup that seemed intended to right his wrongs. That is, until 
the new president, Gen. Robert Guei discovered the intoxicating effect 
of ethnic exclusionism. Soon, he, too, was changing the rules to keep 
Ouattara out. Guei eliminated over a dozen rival candidates for the 
presidency, including those of the two largest parties, making a sham 
of this month's election. Having barred them from the race, the unpopular 
general was surprised to be soundly defeated in a low turnout by Laurent 
Gbagbo, a pioneer of the country's democracy movement. After the stunned 
general sought to proclaim himself president anyway, his military 
government was literally chased from office by tens of thousands of 
supporters of Gbagbo, who now claimed power. But in a country badly 
divided along ethnic lines, this left two-thirds of the population 
dangerously disgruntled and unrepresented, setting up the terrifying 
street confrontations between supporters of Gbagbo and Ouattara. While 
much of the world, from United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan 
and the U.S. State Department to South African President Thabo Mbeki 
and the Organization of African Unity, called for new, free elections, 
the French government, which has always seemed more preoccupied with 
African power than with process, rushed to back Gbagbo. ``Don't expect 
comments from us that could resemble a show of paternalism or lesson-giving,'' 
said a government spokesman responding to criticism by the French 
press for backing the winner of a bogus election out of pure expediency. 
``It is not the French role.''