WASHINGTON (AP) _ U.S. Navy ships have stopped using the Suez Canal, 
the usual route from the eastern United States to the Persian Gulf, 
out of concern for terrorist threats, senior U.S. defense officials 
said Tuesday. No U.S. Navy ship has used the 101-mile canal since 
the USS Cole made its way from the Mediterranean Sea into the Red 
Sea shortly before it was attacked by terrorists in the Yemeni port 
of Aden on Oct. 12. Also on Tuesday, U.S. officials said American 
troops in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait have been placed on the highest 
state of alert, following intelligence indications of terrorist threats 
that are considered credible. The specific target of the threats was 
not immediately clear. U.S. forces elsewhere in the Gulf region _ 
including Bahrain, Qatar and Yemen _ already were on the highest state 
of alert, following the Cole bombing. It was unclear how long Navy 
ships would avoid the Suez. One defense official, speaking on condition 
of anonymity, said some planned trips through the canal have been 
scrapped since the Cole bombing, and future scheduled trips will be 
considered on a case-by-case basis. Col. Brian Hoey, spokesman for 
the U.S. Central Command, said Monday night that the American government 
is ``working very closely with the Egyptian government to ensure ongoing 
security arrangements are appropriate'' at the canal. Meantime, President 
Clinton and the State Department's top anti-terrorism official are 
urging Yemen to give U.S. investigators more access to witnesses, 
suspects and evidence in the Cole bombing investigation. The intricate 
process of preparing the Cole for its return voyage to the United 
States, meanwhile, continued as the heavy-lift ship Blue Marlin worked 
to secure the Cole onto its main deck. Pentagon officials said the 
process likely would take a few more days. Once it is ready to go, 
the Blue Marlin will travel around the southern tip of Africa in order 
to avoid the Suez Canal, defense officials said. Clinton said Monday 
that Yemen had cooperated fully in the preliminary, first phase of 
the investigation of the Oct. 12 attack that killed 17 American sailors 
and injured 39. But, the president said, ``there have been difficulties 
now.'' And, Clinton said, ``I hope that we can work it out.'' On Tuesday, 
Michael A. Sheehan, coordinator of the State Department counterterrorism 
office, said that while Yemen had the authority and responsibility 
to conduct the investigation ``we would like to be privy'' to more 
of it. ``Normally,'' Sheehan said at a breakfast meeting with reporters, 
``the United States doesn't have the right to question witnesses.'' 
But in some situations U.S. investigators have had direct access to 
suspects and ``we are urging them to cooperate and hope that they 
will,'' he said. Clinton said Monday there were some ``promising leads,'' 
and that prompt action was essential because ``the trail can get cold.'' 
Sheehan declined to provide any information on what investigators 
may have found out. ``It's not clear what happened,'' he said. But, 
he added: ``My guess is that it (the attack) was not state-sponsored.'' 
``I don't know who did it,'' the State Department official said. ``Anyone 
in the U.S. government who says he knows doesn't.'' Asked if Osama 
bin Laden, a Saudi expatriate accused of heading a terrorism network, 
was behind the attack, Sheehan said ``it's not useful to speculate.'' 
In Afghanistan, where bin Laden has taken refuge, Taliban Foreign 
Minister Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil said Monday: ``We don't expect that 
America would attack us. ``But,'' he said, ``we are not afraid of 
any attack. Being Muslims, we are ready to greet death at any time.'' 
Sheehan said the United States held Taliban accountable for providing 
sanctuary for terrorist organizations. If the bin Laden group or any 
other there is found responsible for bombing the Cole ``we are going 
to make life miserable for them,'' Sheehan said. The United States 
has demanded that Afghanistan's ruling Taliban militia hand bin Laden 
over for trial on terrorism charges in the August 1998 bombings of 
the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. Those attacks killed 224 
people. Shortly after the embassy attacks, the United States fired 
dozens of Tomahawk cruise missiles at bin Laden's suspected stronghold 
in eastern Afghanistan. Bin Laden has denied involvement in the embassy 
bombings, and the Taliban say the United States has not substantiated 
the charges against him.