Elsewhere, in the Middle East, the investigation into this month's 
deadly bombing of the USS Cole off the coast of Yemen is focussing 
on four men. Today's sources close to the investigation said that 
Yemeni investigators are exploring possible links between the suspects 
and Muslim militants. American officials are pressing for a greater 
role in the investigation. The Clinton administration wants US agents 
to have direct access to witnesses, suspects, and evidence. Allen 
Cyprus is covering the story for the Washington Post in Aden. Allen, 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said that the US wants more 
access. What are US agents not being allowed to do? Who can they not 
talk to? At this point, we are being told that FBI agents are not 
allowed to question possible suspects or possible witnesses. In fact, 
that there are not even in the room when those questions are posed. 
From the Yemeni point of view, this is a matter of sovereignty, but 
the two sides are trying to work out some kind of arrangement in which 
Americans may be able to observe the questioning even if they don't 
participate in it. Perhaps, Americans would understand it better if 
it were American suspects being questioned by interrogators from outside. 
Yemenis here say that they have been working hard to co-operate with 
the Americans, particularly in the face of gathering evidence, but 
the Yemenis should be questioned by Yemenis. Is it difficult at the 
same time for reporters to find out what's going on? I know there 
are some reporters who have handlers or minders as you try to talk 
to witnesses, is that the case with you? It has been the case, all 
the reporters staying here in Aden have been assigned minders from 
the security services here in Yemen, and that makes it a little difficult 
to move around freely and to interview people, but by hook or by crook 
we sometimes can get enough free space to talk to people. And the 
job is not impossible, but its certainly more difficult than it might 
be a number of other countries in the Middle East, and it's more difficult 
than it typically is here in Yemen. And when we make the American 
comparison again, it would be hard to see how may be the FBI or police 
would stand in the way of foreign reporters talking to witnesses here 
on this end. What is the rationale given there? There are a number 
of different rationales, the first one that were given is that they 
are worried about our security, they have already seen 17 Americans 
killed here and they don't want to see any more incidents like that, 
but its hard to accept that at face value. More likely they are trying 
to control what is a sudden influx of foreigners into their country, 
and to control the information that comes out of this country. Are 
there any new developments then as far as the suspects are concerned? 
I mean, do we know more about them or who else behind the attack on 
the USS Cole? Not a great deal more than what we did a few days ago. 
The most significant statement we have heard in recent days is that 
from the president of Yemen, Ali Abdullah Saleh who said that one 
of the suspects is believed to be an Egyptian, or at least that what's 
the preliminary investigation shows. We are in the phase now of questioning 
suspects, of slowly gathering information. We hear reports that there 
are perhaps 2 people involved, perhaps 4 people involved, perhaps 
more than that. We hear reports of multiple stay houses, we hear reports 
of investigations going beyond Yemen's borders to other Gulf countries. 
But at this point, that's very hard for us to confirm. You did some 
interesting reporting the day the USS Cole left last week and you 
spoke with some of the people who were standing by the port, and in 
some cases, there were certain people who basically bid good riddance 
to it. Can you tell us about some of the comments that you heard from 
Yemenis? I should by saying I did not hear any people say that they 
were happy that there had been an attack against the USS Cole. But 
from the minute that the military came in to follow up after the attacking, 
and the moment the FBI started arriving here, there was a great deal 
of apprehension among Yemenis that this was a secret plot to establish 
an American base in Yemen. I think a lot of Yemenis were relieved 
to see the Americans go at this time. And in particular at a time 
when there is a fair bit of animosity towards the United States because 
of its support for Israel in the current clashes with the Palestinians. 
Journalist Allen Cyprus of the Washington Post, speaking to us from 
Aden in Yemen. Thank you very much for the update. Not at all, thank 
you.