A fall in Delaware, a plane crash in Missouri and a modest resurgence 
in Virginia are injecting late suspense into the battle for control 
of the Senate, where Democrats are nursing fragile hopes of a takeover. 
Republicans dismiss such talk, and say they may yet top off Election 
Night by defeating first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton in New York and 
the Democrats' $50 million man, Jon Corzine, in New Jersey. With one 
week remaining until the election, as many as a dozen seats remain 
competitive out of 34 on the ballot, according to strategists in both 
parties, enough to swing control either way. ``We are increasingly 
encouraged by the competitiveness of so many of the races,'' Senate 
Minority Leader Tom Daschle said in a recent interview. ``We think 
if the election were held today, there is at least a 50-50 chance 
of taking back the Senate,'' said the South Dakotan who would become 
majority leader if the Democrats gain a majority. ``The two keys for 
us are Nevada and Virginia,'' said Stuart Roy, spokesman for the GOP 
senatorial campaign committee. ``If we win those two states, it will 
slam the door shut on the Democrats' opportunity to take control of 
the Senate,'' he said, adding that they are ``two states where Democrats 
hold the seats and we hold the lead.'' Republicans hold a 54-46 edge 
in the current Senate, and will be defending 19 of the 35 seats on 
the ballot next Tuesday. The election arithmetic is so complicated 
that it's possible the Senate's makeup won't be known until well after 
Nov. 7. Sen. Joseph Lieberman, Al Gore's vice presidential running 
mate, is coasting to a new term from Connecticut. But he would give 
up his Senate seat if Democrats win the presidential race, giving 
Gov. John Rowland, a Republican, the chance to appoint a replacement. 
And a seven-way race in Georgia holds out the possibility of a run-off 
in December. Sen. Zell Miller, a Democrat, leads Republican Mack Mattingly 
in a race to complete the unexpired term of the late Sen. Paul Coverdell. 
Republicans are hoping to hold Miller below a majority, triggering 
a run-off in late November. A few seats have become more predictable 
in recent weeks. GOP Sen. Rod Grams, elected in the Republican landslide 
in 1994, remains behind in the polls in his bid for a second term 
in Minnesota, and many strategists in his party concede Democrat Mark 
Dayton is poised to defeat him. Democrats acknowledge they are likely 
to lose a seat in Nevada, where former GOP Rep. John Ensign is running. 
And in Rhode Island and Pennsylvania, where Democratic strategists 
had once hoped to mount strong challenges, GOP Sens. Lincoln Chafee 
and Rick Santorum appear comfortably ahead. In Florida, Democrat Bill 
Nelson has been ahead consistently in the polls against GOP Rep. Bill 
McCollum for a GOP-held open seat, although Republicans claim late 
momentum. Elsewhere, tight and sometimes volatile races are the norm, 
Virginia, Delaware and Missouri contests among them. In Virginia, 
former GOP Gov. George Allen has long led in the polls in his effort 
to deny Sen. Charles Robb a third term. But a Washington Post survey 
last week suggested Robb was closing the gap, President Clinton made 
a weekend foray into Northern Virginia on his behalf and Republicans 
concede the race has tightened. Democrats say this race is particularly 
important to their national prospects. Without a Robb victory, says 
Sen. Robert Torricelli of New Jersey, chairman of the Democratic campaign 
committee, it will be very difficult if not impossible for his party 
to win a Senate majority. In Delaware, Republican Sen. William V. 
Roth, the chairman of the tax-writing Sen. Finance Committee, had 
been locked in a tight race for months with Democratic Gov. Tom Carper. 
However, two weeks ago, the 79-year-old Roth's eyes rolled up as he 
fell backward and struck his head against a wall _ an image captured 
by video cameras. It was the second time in three weeks that Roth 
had fallen in public incidents that aides attribute to vertigo. He 
was checked by physicians and resumed his campaigning and his Senate 
duties. Republicans privately express concern, though, that he has 
lost support in the days since. In Missouri, Republican Sen. John 
Ashcroft was battling Democratic Gov. Mel Carnahan in a tight, costly 
battle when the governor was killed in a light plane crash two weeks 
ago. Under state law, it was too late to remove Carnahan's name from 
the ballot. And on Monday, the governor's widow, Jean Carnahan, said 
she would accept Gov. Roger Wilson's offer of a Senate appointment 
if her husband wins the election posthumously. ``I've decided to ... 
continue the fight for his ideals,'' she said. Ashcroft suspended 
campaigning when the governor perished, and told reporters that if 
it ``ends up costing me the election, I still believe it was the right 
thing to do.'' Polling suggests that the race, which was virtually 
even when the governor was alive, has tilted toward Carnahan since 
his death. Both parties are struggling to craft tasteful, yet effective 
strategies for the campaign's final days. In several other races, 
incumbent Republicans are struggling. In Michigan, Sen. Spencer Abraham 
opened up a double-digit lead in some polls earlier in the fall, but 
surveys since then have shown Democratic Rep. Debbie Stabenow closing 
the gap. Sen. Slade Gorton in Washington is trying to hold off a challenge 
from Maria Cantwell, a former House member turned Internet millionaire. 
Sen. Conrad Burns is bidding for a third term in Montana against Democrat 
Brian Schweitzer, a political novice, in an especially tight race. 
Nevada aside, Democrats are laboring to hold onto open seats in New 
York, where recent polls suggest Rep. Rick Lazio has momentum in his 
race against Mrs. Clinton; and in New Jersey, where Democrat Jon Corzine 
has been unable to pull comfortably away from Rep. Bob Franks despite 
spending more than $50 million of his own funds. In Nebraska, where 
former Gov. Ben Nelson, a Democrat, is making his second try for the 
Senate, Democrats and Republicans alike say he is likely to succeed 
this time, replacing departing Democratic Sen. Bob Kerrey.