The run-down building was once the town's movie house, showing Western 
and Arab films to audiences coming from nearby villages in the former 
Marxist republic of South Yemen. Several years ago, a towering minaret 
was added and Quranic verses were painted on its whitewashed facade. 
Ja'ar's movie house is now a mosque where Muslim radicals preach sermons 
calling for establishing an Islamic state. For years Ja'ar, 50 miles 
northeast of Aden, has been a stronghold of Yemen's most militant 
Islamic groups _ groups under a spotlight following the Oct. 12 attack 
on the USS Cole as it sat in Aden's port. The Cole bombing killed 
17 servicemen and wounded 35 others. Yemeni President Ali Abdullah 
Saleh has confirmed that some members of the group Islamic Jihad have 
been detained for questioning in connection with the assault on Cole. 
While radical groups have been forced to abandon their military camps 
in the rugged mountains surrounding Ja'ar, their members are still 
active in Ja'ar, delivering speeches and sermons peppered with anti-American 
rhetoric. ``They have only changed their skin and their tactics, but 
they do not seem to be less motivated than ever to pursue their goals,'' 
said Hussein Saeed Saleh, head of the town's branch of the Socialist 
Party, which ruled South Yemen before the 1990 merger with North Yemen. 
When it was an independent state, South Yemen prided itself as the 
only secular country amid traditional societies on the Arabian Peninsula. 
Today, alcohol is prohibited in Ja'ar, a dusty town with one main 
street and clusters of brick buildings about 10 miles from coast. 
Schools were forced to adopt a fundamentalist curriculum and women 
are banned from leaving their houses without draping themselves head-to-toe 
in black robes. Violators of the strict rules are subject to severe 
punishment, including public lashing. The Aden-Abyan Islamic Army, 
which many believe remains capable of planning and mounting terrorist 
attacks, once had a base in the mountains above Ja'ar. The group is 
believed to have been set up by Yemenis and other Arabs who fought 
in Afghanistan against the Soviets in the 1980s and later returned 
to their countries to wage a jihad, or holy war, against their own 
governments. In 1994, the Aden-Abyan Islamic Army under Zein al-Abidine 
al-Mihdar fought alongside the northern forces in the civil war that 
ended the secessionist regime in the south. As a reward, President 
Saleh allowed them to function freely and even to open military training 
facilities. He appointed some Islamic extremists to military and government 
jobs. The Aden-Abyan Islamic Army imposed its version of Islamic law 
in southern Yemen, closing down cinemas, bars and nightclubs. They 
even burned down a government-owned beer factory. When the government 
tried to rein them in they proclaimed the state anti-Islamic and began 
attacking security positions and oil pipelines and kidnapping foreign 
tourists. Sources close to the group said al-Mihdar also began building 
closer relations with Osama bin Laden, whom he knew from Afghanistan. 
Al-Mihdar applauded as ``a heroic operation'' the 1998 bombings of 
U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 224 people. Washington 
blames bin Laden for the bombings. In a statement after the bombings, 
al-Mihdar called on all Yemenis to ``kill the Americans and take their 
belongings and to destroy their facilities and bases which are under 
preparation in Aden, Hodeidah and Socotra.'' Militants' activities 
in Yemen were no secret to the U.S. government, which has called Yemen 
a haven for terrorists. Now many in the United States are asking why 
the Cole and other U.S. ships would risk a visit to southern Yemen 
to refuel. The Cole was scheduled Wednesday to leave Yemen's shores 
``in a few days' time,'' said Frederik Steenbuch, manager of the Norwegian 
company bringing the Cole back to the United States. The Cole has 
been loaded onto the deck of the Blue Marlin, a ship owned by Steenbuch's 
company, Offshore Heavy Transport. The trip home is expected to take 
about five weeks. Four months after the attacks on U.S. embassies 
in Africa, the Aden-Abyan Army kidnapped 16 foreign tourists. Government 
soldiers stormed the hide-out near Ja'ar and four of the hostages 
died in the rescue attempt. Al-Mihdar was captured and later convicted 
in the hostages' deaths and executed. The raid netted explosives, 
timing devices and a list of targets including the Royal Hotel in 
Aden, home to American soldiers helping the Yemeni army clear mines. 
And the army found with al-Mihdar many non-Yemeni Arabs, mostly Egyptian 
and Algerian Afghan war veterans, among them a member of Egypt's Islamic 
Group who was identified as a close assistant to the group's leader 
Ayman al-Zawahri, a senior leader of bin Laden's Al-Qaida terrorist 
network. On Wednesday, Yassir Tawfiq el-Sirri, an Islamic activist 
who runs the London-based Islamic Observatory, said bin Laden and 
his supporters have evacuated hide-outs in Afghanistan, fearing Washington 
might launch a strike against them.