WASHINGTON (AP) _ U.S. intelligence agencies have picked up ``credible 
threat information'' against American targets in Saudi Arabia and 
Kuwait, and all U.S. forces in those Persian Gulf countries were placed 
on the highest state of alert, officials said. The heightened alert 
coincided with confirmation Tuesday that since the bombing of the 
USS Cole in Yemen on Oct. 12, no American warship has used the Suez 
Canal. The 101-mile-long waterway provides the fastest, and the normally 
followed, passage from the eastern United States to the gulf, where 
a U.S. aircraft carrier and its support ships maintain a permanent 
presence. Some officials said U.S. military commanders believe it 
is prudent to avoid the Suez Canal for security reasons, but Pentagon 
spokesman Kenneth Bacon said no official decision was made to stop 
using the canal, which links the Mediterranean and Red seas. Egyptian 
authorities have increased security at the Suez Canal since the Cole 
bombing, a senior official at the strategic waterway said Wednesday. 
He refused to divulge details, but other sources who live near the 
canal said a road running parallel to the waterway has been closed 
to civilian traffic. A U.S. intelligence official, speaking on condition 
of anonymity, said Wednesday that the targets of the terrorist threats 
related to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait were not specific, even as to whether 
the targets were military or civilian. They were credible enough, 
though, to take extra precautions, he said. The crippled Cole, with 
a 40-foot-by-40-foot hole in the left side of its steel hull _ has 
been lifted onto the deck of a specialized transport ship, the Blue 
Marlin, which will carry the destroyer back to the United States. 
The Navy said Wednesday the Blue Marlin, with the Cole aboard, had 
begun its voyage. The Navy would not say which route the Blue Marlin 
will take, but defense officials speaking on condition of anonymity 
had said earlier this week that it probably would take the long way 
home by going around the Cape of Good Hope on Africa's southern tip, 
to avoid the Suez Canal. The more than 200 members of the Cole crew 
who had remained on the ship after the bombing will be flown back 
to their home base, Norfolk Naval Station in Virginia, probably on 
Friday, officials said. Despite an appeal by President Clinton for 
``a genuine, joint investigation,'' Yemeni government investigators 
continued to question suspects without the participation of FBI agents 
sent to the Arabian peninsula country after the explosion. Yemeni 
officials said transcripts of interrogations were sent to U.S. investigators, 
who posed questions to Yemenis, then followed up. ABC News reported 
Tuesday night that U.S. officials suspect Yemeni authorities erased 
critical parts of a videotape taken by a harbor surveillance camera 
the day the Cole was hit. FBI spokeswoman Tracey Silberling said she 
did not know about the tape and could not comment on the report. Pentagon 
spokesman Bacon said the roughly 5,000 U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia 
and 5,000 in Kuwait were placed Monday on the highest alert level, 
``threat condition delta.'' ``It is due to credible threat information 
involving unspecified targets,'' he said. Last week the Pentagon said 
American forces in Bahrain and Qatar, tiny Gulf states with friendly 
relations with the United States, were placed on ``threat condition 
delta'' in response to terrorist threats of unknown credibility against 
specific targets _ including an airfield in Bahrain used by American 
aircraft. At Arlington National Cemetery, one of the last of the slain 
sailors brought home from the Cole was buried Tuesday. Hull Maintenance 
Technician 3rd Class Kenneth E. Clodfelter, 21, of Mechanicsville, 
Va., was among the 17 victims. ``Kenneth won't be forgotten; the other 
16 won't be forgotten; the Cole won't be forgotten,'' Clodfelter's 
father, John, said after the funeral. At a Pentagon briefing, Bacon 
displayed U.S. Navy photographs of the Cole being maneuvered onto 
the deck of the Blue Marlin, but none showed the Cole raised out of 
the water to show the full dimensions of the bomb crater in its hull. 
Bacon said such photos might not be made public. He said the only 
U.S. ship that had been scheduled to transit the Suez Canal since 
the Cole did so on Oct. 9 was the destroyer USS Donald Cook, which 
instead will accompany the Cole on its voyage home. He said it would 
be a matter of weeks before any other ships are scheduled to use the 
canal, but he denied that reflected a change in plans. In the meantime, 
U.S. officials are consulting with the Egyptian government, which 
owns and operates the Suez Canal, on security arrangements, Bacon 
said. Although the Persian Gulf region generally is considered more 
dangerous than many other parts of the world, security worries have 
escalated since the Cole bombing. American officials believe the attack 
was the work of terrorists, possibly with links to suspected terrorism 
mastermind Osama bin Laden. Along with a Navy carrier battle group 
in the Gulf, the troops in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait form the bulk of 
the U.S. effort to contain Iraq's military. They include a U.S. Air 
Force contingent at Prince Sultan Air Base in central Saudi Arabia 
that helps patrol the ``no fly'' zone over southern Iraq. The American 
forces in Kuwait are mainly Army units at Camp Doha and include a 
Patriot air defense missile unit. ___ On the Net: The USS Cole: http://www.chinfo.navy.mil/navpalib/news/news_stories/cole.html 
The Blue Marlin: http://www.oht.no