the "uss cole" is on its long journey home tonight, sitting atop a 
rescue ship. and now, for the first time, its open wound fully visible. 
nbc's jim miklaszewski tonight at the pentagon with an exclusive report 
on the damage done and the difficulty in finding those responsible. 
jim? what's the latest there? new pictures reveal the sheer power 
of that terrorist bomb that ripped through the "uss cole." for the 
first time, with the "cole" out of the water, the full impact of the 
catastrophic blast clearly visible. in these photos obtained by nbc 
news, the damage much larger than first imagined. extending well below 
the water line. workers on deck dwarfed by the 40 x 60-foot gaping 
wound. large sections of the hull buckled inward. crewman sean powell, 
back home in florida, says inside the "cole," it was chaos. it got 
dark. we lost power. ship started to list. that's what scared everybody. 
despite the devastating damage, navy officials predict the "cole" 
can be repaired for about $150 million. and put back into service. 
justice department officials say in yemen, the fbi's investigation 
is dead in the water. senior u.s. officials tell nbc news the yemen 
government has all but shut down all cooperation in finding those 
behind the "cole" attack. evidence is either withheld or tampered 
with. a surveillance video of the harbor at the time of the attack 
was so heavily edited, it didn't even show the blast itself. why? 
yemen is a terrorist hotbed, and some members of president saleh's 
own cabinet have direct ties to radical islamic extremists and terrorists. 
it's hard to see exactly why it is that the president there would 
ever want to cooperate with the united states and possibly put himself 
in jeopardy. reporter: and even though cooperation from yemen is at 
a standstill, u.s. officials tell nbc news that they are making substantial 
progress in the investigation and are fully confident they will get 
enough evidence to retaliate against those responsible. tom? thanks 
very much, nbc's jim miklaszewski tonight.