Welcome to another hour of news and information on the Voice of America. 
I'm David Chadwick with VOA News Now. The United States says it wants 
to see more co-operation from the government of Yemen in the investigation 
into last month's terrorist attack on the navy destroyer, the USS 
Cole, which killed 17 American sailors. VOA's Nick Simeone reports. 
President Clinton has already written to Yemen's President asking 
for his full co-operation into the Cole bombing. But the New York 
Times quotes unnamed US officials are saying co-operation has only 
gotten worse and that FBI agents are not being allowed access to possible 
evidence obtained by the Yemeni government. All the FBI will say on 
the record is that it continues to work with the Yemeni authorities. 
But at State Department, Spokesmen Richard Boucher told reporters 
Washington is still pressing for full co-operation. We need more co-operation. 
We need extensive, we need different kinds of co-operation, different 
kind of access to evidence, the information, different kinds of procedures. 
We are working those things out. We are making progress in that regard. 
But Yemen may not be as interested in resolving the bombing as the 
United States. If it turns out that a country the State Department 
calls a safe haven for terrorists, could be accused of shouldering 
some of the blame for lax security. Tom Williams is a security expert 
at Security Management International, a company with expertise in 
protecting corporate and government assets around the world. If the 
witnesses have information that would point in any wrong direction, 
the Yemenis would want to make sure that they can control that information. 
Also, there is issues on sovereignty. The Yemenis could, if they already 
know what the information is entailing, there could be retribution 
against the Yemeni government. In neighboring Saudi Arabia, the investigation 
into a terrorist attack four years ago on the Cobar Towers Military 
Housing complex that killed 19 Americans, still remains unresolved. 
In that case as well, the FBI complained that Saudi authorities had 
not allowed its agents access to certain suspects. Nick Simeone, VOA 
News at the State Department.