The Voice of America presents differing points of view on a wide variety 
of issues. Next, an editorial expressing the policies of the United 
States government. The pressure is mounting for Yugoslav President 
Slobodan Milosevic to concede defeat to challenger Vojislav Kostunica. 
Mr. Milosevic has claimed that neither candidate won the necessary 
50 percent of the vote in the presidential election making a runoff 
on October 8th necessary. The opposition says it received an absolute 
majority, based on certified results from polling places and sees 
no need for a run off. The Serbian Orthodox Church and other nations 
support the opposition's claim of victory. The Yugoslav Constitutional 
Court is now disputing the validity of parts of the election results. 
A general strike is underway to demonstrate to Milosevic that he has 
already lost control of the country. Workers at mines serving two 
of Yugoslavia's biggest power plants have walked out. In Eastern Serbia, 
4500 miners have put down their tools at the Kostrolots mine. Taxi 
drivers, railways staff and oil refinery workers have also joined 
the work stoppage. Road blockades have been set up across the country. 
A convoy of 70 trucks blocked a key highway in Yugoslavia with drivers 
brandishing banners and posters of Mr. Kostunica. It appears that 
Milosevic is also losing his grip on the state media. One example 
is Pherchevia Novosty, a popular tabloid the state took over in March. 
Now more than 60 reporters have signed a petition demanding a return 
to balanced news coverage within 24 hours. In an open letter, they 
demanded that the paper stop linking itself to the interests of a 
narrow political party or person, but only to the truth and the will 
of the people as expressed in the elections. There is a similar petition 
at Belgrade Radio, part of the state system. Eight local radio stations 
also said they would stop broadcasting state news. Clearly Milosevic 
must go. The Serbian people have voted overwhelmingly in favor of 
democracy and of an end to their international isolation. As soon 
as a democratic government is in place, the US will immediately take 
steps to remove economic sanctions and help Serbia with its transition. 
Listen to the people, Mr. Milosevic, it is time to go.