we turn now to a campaign for the u.s. senate which is without precedent. 
mel carnahan as you may know was killed in a plane crash 2 1/2 weeks 
ago. but his name is still on the ballot in his attempt to unseat 
the republican senator john ashcroft. as a result, senator ashcroft 
is forced to do something highly unusual, campaign against a decease 
opponent. nor norah o'donnell has a look at the most unusual senate 
campaign in this country. today in kansas city, gore asked voters 
to keep a legacy alive. let's pull that lever for mel carnahan on 
tuesday and send jean carnahan to make sure that fire never goes out. 
governor bush was in missouri thursday to boost senator john ashcroft. 
i want to thank my friend senator john ashcroft. we need to send him 
back to washington. this senate race turned upside down by his opponent. 
jean carnahan plans to accept a seat to the senate if mel carnahan 
wins. this is probably the first ad to ever tout a dead candidate. 
cast your votes. mel carnahan's name will still be on that ballot 
and his vision for missouri can still prevail if we want it to. ashcroft 
called the ad political. i'm not going to comment on mrs. c ra rnahan 
making a political commercial. until this week, ashcroft had canceled 
all political events, pulled his television advertising and watched 
his lead in the polls slip away. the latest msnbc news rueters poll 
shows ashcroft trailing his opponent. this week after voting by absentee 
ballot, ashcroft acknowledges his campaign has suffered. it hurts 
in the polls. we were doing very well and frankly the race has tightened 
up substantially. but doing the right thing is an important thing. 
that's why i'm in government. and if it costs me the election, i would 
still do the right thing. republicans are now worried. and asking 
the question how do we run a campaign against a dead person? former 
senator john danforth says in this new ad what's happening to ashcroft 
is not right. ashcroft says he will stick to the issues and carnahan 
advisors says jean carnahan has no plans to hit the campaign trail 
as both sides worry about appearing too political at a time when the 
state is still mourning the loss of its governor. but experts say 
the imp thi vote may help carnahan and that ashcroft is in a political 
straight jacket. another i think the best thing he could do is to 
say here's what i stand for. here's my record, please vote for me. 
but other than that, i think it would be a backlash that would cost 
him dearly if he criticized her in any way. if mel carnahan does win, 
state and national republican leaders warn they're challenge the appointment 
of jean carnahan.