Missourians like to call their state the gateway to the West, but 
to political scientists it is the nation's electoral heart monitor. 
Since 1904, it has backed the winner in every presidential election 
but one, in 1956, when it picked Adlai Stevenson from nearby Illinois 
over President Dwight D. Eisenhower. So if that track record means 
anything, Vice President Al Gore should be worried. He narrowly trails 
his Republican rival, Gov. George W. Bush, in Missouri polls and has 
for months. Even the Democrats acknowledge that their own surveys 
show him running a percentage point or two behind. And Republicans 
contend that their polls indicate Bush's lead is growing by the day. 
But in this year of the wavering voter, Missouri keeps both sides 
feeling nervous one moment, hopeful the next, with Democrats thinking 
the state's 11 electoral votes remain up for grabs and Republicans 
worrying that things are far from locked up. And that is why Kansas 
City and St. Louis feel like Grand Central Terminal on the presidential 
express these days. Campaign ads, most of them negative, are inescapable 
on radio and television. Yard signs and billboards are as common as 
dandelions. And the candidates or their surrogates seem to be in one 
Missouri town or another every other day. Gore was in Kansas City 
on Friday, his second visit here in two weeks. Bush was in St. Charles 
on Thursday, just days after visiting Columbia. Gore's running mate, 
Sen. Joseph Lieberman, was in St. Louis on Friday; Bush's No. 2, Dick 
Cheney, was there on Tuesday. In his visit on Friday, Gore invoked 
Harry Truman, a Missourian who, Gore pointed out, also trailed in 
the polls on the eve of the 1948 election. ``When someone said to 
Harry Truman, `Give them hell,' he said, and I repeat in this context, 
`I'll tell the truth, and they'll think it's hell,''' Gore told several 
hundred screaming supporters. Partisans on both sides say this election 
is Missouri's most important in decades, for reasons beyond the presidency. 
For one, the Republicans have a shot at taking over both the legislature 
and governor's office, gaining control over Congressional redistricting 
next year. For another, many Democrats view the election as a referendum 
of sorts on the life and ideals of Gov. Mel Carnahan, who died in 
a plane crash last month while campaigning for the Senate against 
the incumbent Republican, Sen. John Ashcroft. Carnahan's name remains 
on the ballot because he died so close to Election Day, and his wife 
has agreed to accept an appointment to fill the seat if Carnahan wins. 
``It's turned into a crusade to make sure the issues he stood for 
remain in the forefront,'' said Bridgette Williams, president of the 
greater Kansas City AFL-CIO Trying to assess ``the Carnahan factor,'' 
Kenneth Warren, a political scientist at St. Louis University, said 
that polls showed Gore and other Democrats surging ahead of their 
Republican opponents immediately following Carnahan's death. But that 
surge has ended, and in some cases has reversed. ``I kind of doubt 
now that his death will have an effect,'' Warren said. ``But I change 
with the wind, too. I've never seen polls fluctuate this much.'' More 
than ever, turnout will be crucial. The Democrats are counting on 
large numbers in St. Louis and Kansas City, as well as in the ``Boot 
Heel,'' the state's socially conservative but traditionally Democratic 
southeastern region. Republicans need strong turnout from their rural 
base. That leaves the St. Louis suburbs, a bastion of moderate Republicanism 
which accounts for nearly one in five Missouri voters, as the major 
battleground. One large imponderable will be the impact of a politician 
not on the ballot: President Bill Clinton. Though Clinton carried 
Missouri in 1992 and 1996, Republicans assert that the state's electorate 
will punish Gore for the president's affair with a White House intern 
and ethical problems. During his visit to Columbia, for instance, 
Bush made a clear reference to Clinton's travails. ``I understand 
that the best way for a president to help parents teach a responsible 
society to their children is for the president himself to behave responsibly,'' 
he said. And the Democrats seem to agree that Clinton is a potential 
liability. At the urging of Gore's advisers, Clinton canceled plans 
to attend a get-out-the-vote rally in St. Louis this coming Sunday 
that is to feature the Rev. Jesse Jackson and several Hollywood celebrities. 
Even in endorsing Gore recently, The Kansas City Star chided him for 
working with Clinton. ``Vice President Al Gore, despite his emphatic 
declarations now that he is his `own man,' has been tainted by his 
association with a disreputable, untrustworthy president,'' it said. 
Still, the editorial concluded, Bush was not fit to be president because 
he has ``failed to demonstrate the energy, knowledge and intellectual 
depth that the country should expect from a candidate for the White 
House.''