Engineerman 3rd class John Thompson said he operated on autopilot 
as he carried injured crew mates from a mangled steel shell that minutes 
before was a mess hall aboard the destroyer Cole, wading through water 
that flooded the hold, past exposed live power lines and thick clouds 
of smoke until he reached the deck and safety. ``We weren't thinking, 
we didn't wait for electrical isolation,'' the 22-year-old sailor 
said Friday, describing how he and three shipmates ignored the rules 
against moving and working near live electric lines and rescued shipmates 
in the hours after last month's suicide bombing of the Cole in Aden 
harbor, Yemen. Thompson was among the 216 members of the Cole's crew 
who flew home Friday to a hero's homecoming at the naval air station 
here, greeted by more than 1,000 friends and family members who had 
waited hours under a bright autumn sky for the plane to arrive from 
Germany. Boisterous applause and loud whistles greeted the men and 
women as they walked from the airplane to an official line of Navy 
dignitaries and a mob of well-wishers. Richard Danzig, secretary of 
the Navy, and Adm. Vern Clark, the chief of naval operations, greeted 
the sailors as they stepped onto the tarmac from a chartered DC-10 
aircraft. A Navy band played ``Anchors Aweigh'' while family members 
ran past the ropes where they had waited all morning and thronged 
around the front of the airplane, throwing flakes of silver confetti 
and balloons into the air. The first sailor off the plane was Cmdr. 
Kirk S. Lippold, the skipper of the Cole, who was credited by many 
sailors Friday for saving the ship after the Oct. 12 explosion tore 
a 40-by-40-foot hole in the Cole. Lippold, who has yet to speak publicly 
about the attack, declined to address the families and disappeared 
into the crowd. Instead, he issued a statement through the Navy. ``I 
have never been more proud of my crew,'' Lippold said in his statement. 
``They responded magnificently to this tragedy _ just as I expected 
and just as they've been trained to respond. They saved their ship 
and they saved their shipmates. Each Cole sailor today returns home 
a hero.'' With two separate military reviews under way to determine 
whether the Cole failed to set or to follow proper safety procedures, 
senior Navy and Pentagon officials are eager to give Lippold full 
support during the arduous investigations. Friday's reunion on an 
unseasonably warm day seemed to postpone, for the time being, the 
hard questions and difficult issues that lie ahead and were even voiced 
by some family members as they waited for their loved ones: Why was 
the ship vulnerable to attack? What might have been done to prevent 
it? And who, if anyone, ought to take responsibility for it? Paul 
Riddle, an operations specialist 2nd class, said he was on deck when 
the suicide boat carrying the explosives pulled up alongside the Cole. 
``It looked just like all the other boats around there,'' he said. 
``Two guys were on it, one a really big guy and I kind of glanced 
at it.'' The only security precautions were officers patrolling the 
deck with shotguns, he said. He said he saw no special effort to contact 
approaching harbor boats to make sure they were on authorized business, 
and knew of nothing done to warn unauthorized boats off or to keep 
them away, as would have been required under anti-terrorist measures 
laid out by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Riddle said he knew of no picket 
boats patrolling the water around the ship. ``There was nothing out 
there for protection,'' he said. Dee Zander, the mother of John Thompson, 
the engineerman who pulled shipmates from the damaged mess hall, was 
one of the earliest to arrive at the air terminal Friday. She spent 
the morning trading stories with other families about the days before 
and after the attack. When the Cole sailed through the Suez Canal 
more than a week before the ship entered the harbor at Aden, Zander 
received a last e-mail from her son. He told her that e-mails would 
not be allowed during that leg of the voyage. At the same time, he 
said, local vendors were boarding the ship and selling food and souvenirs, 
to the consternation of several sailors. Zander, a nurse at a Veterans 
Affairs hospital near her home in Cochranville, Pa., brightened when 
Adm. Clark told the families that ``the magic of the crew of the USS 
Cole was the manner in which they pulled together and supported one 
another.'' Her son used cardiopulmonary resuscitation to help save 
several of his shipmates and carried Chief Petty Officer Keith A. 
Lorensen out of the steel-entangled mess hall to safety on the ship's 
deck. ``This guy saved my life, he pulled me out,'' said Lorensen, 
who was flown home two weeks ago but came to the homecoming to greet 
the sailors who rescued him. Several families were still fragile from 
the long day three weeks ago when they heard the Cole had been attacked 
but didn't know whether their loved ones had survived. The blast killed 
17 and wounded three dozen. Carol Steindorff, the mother of Ryan Schmalz, 
a 21-year-old fireman 3rd class, said that ``it was a long, really 
long, rough day before we knew he was all right.'' She said she believed 
her son was still dazed from the horrors he saw, including the horrendous 
condition of the boat after the attack. The filth of that deck will 
ong be remembered by John Washak, interior communications first class, 
who said the weeks after the attack had ``been hell.'' ``The living 
conditions we had to endure, sleeping every night on a dirty deck 
and waking up in the morning to 110-degree heat,'' he said. On top 
of those problems, the sailor said he and several others couldn't 
sleep at night after what they had seen happen to their shipmates. 
``I didn't sleep for four days and only then with medication,'' he 
said, hugging his sons, Jonathan, 7, and Joshua, 4. After all that 
he had witnessed, Washak said, getting off the airplane Friday and 
hearing the shout from his wife, Theresa, above the noise now ranks 
``as the happiest moment of my life.''