Coils of barbed wire close an opening in a wall around the shack that 
suspects in the USS Cole bombing allegedly used to prepare a small 
boat for its deadly mission. A scrawny camel chewing on rotting fruit 
was the only presence near the shack on a recent afternoon. The security 
agents who had swarmed the area following the Oct. 12 bombing of the 
destroyer are gone. The Cole has disappeared from Aden's harbor; life 
is returning to normal around the houses and locations thought to 
have connected to the blast. But despite promising leads, the mystery 
of the worst strike on the U.S. military since 1996 has yet to be 
unraveled. Some experts believe the Cole explosion has ushered in 
a period of heightened danger, with a possibility of additional anti-U.S. 
and anti-Israel attacks in the Middle East. That is partly because 
of continued tension in Israel and the Palestinian territories. The 
United States is perceived as backing Israel in the crisis that erupted 
Sept. 28, a perception fueling cravings for revenge and punishment 
against Americans. ``This is just the tip of the iceberg,'' said Vince 
Cannistraro, a former CIA counterterrorism expert. ``We're going to 
see a whole series of suicide bombings ... over the next months or 
so.'' Cannistraro said attacks would not be of the Cole scale, but 
rather smaller and more spontaneous, especially around the Muslim 
holy month of Ramadan, a time of more religious fervor. Ramadan begins 
in late November. There has been no responsibility claim considered 
credible in the strike on the Cole. American officials have said Osama 
bin Laden _ America's No. 1 terror suspect who has pledged to drive 
the U.S. military out of the Middle East _ is a focus of the bombing 
investigation. The Saudi millionaire is accused of masterminding the 
1998 bombings on U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. Yemenis have 
rounded up some senior members of Islamic Jihad, a group formed by 
veterans of the Afghan war against the Soviets in the 1980s that has 
ties to bin Laden. President Ali Abdullah Saleh has said one of the 
suspects is Egyptian. Two detainees allegedly took part in preparing 
for attacks in December 1993 on two hotels frequented by foreigners 
in which an Austrian and a janitor were killed. Officials and diplomats 
at the time blamed Muslim fundamentalists angered by Yemen's support 
for the U.S.-led relief operation in Somalia. Preparations for the 
bombing are believed to have started in March. Around that time, a 
man went to the naval police base to register a white boat using a 
fake identification card issued in Lahej, an Islamic Jihad stronghold 
22 miles north of Aden. When the man was asked to produce the boat 
for inspection, he said it was being repaired and led police to the 
shack where the boat allegedly was fitted with explosives. Investigators 
believe four people plotted the Cole bombing and, like members of 
well-run terrorist groups, they didn't reveal the whole plan to their 
helpers. A carpenter who rented out the shack in Madinat Ash-Shaab 
neighborhood apparently helped the men weld linings for explosives 
into the boat and had seen them bring explosives into the cinderblock 
room with blue shutters. But the carpenter told investigators he didn't 
know what the men had planned to do with the explosives and that they 
repeatedly had told him to mind his own business. A Somali-born woman 
who had bought the car that towed the boat also told investigators 
the suspects gave her money to make the purchase, but she said she 
had no idea it was to be part of a bomb plot. A network inside and 
outside Yemen provided the men with practical support _ identification 
cards and money. Phone records show the suspects made collect calls 
to Gulf countries and received money from those places in the form 
of transfers to local exchange bureaus. Authorities are looking for 
paperwork relating to four identification cards, at least one of them 
fake, issued between 1996 and 1997 that has disappeared from government 
files. Most of those detained have been released. However, the carpenter, 
the Somali-born woman, four Islamists detained in Lahej and several 
civil servants from the Lahej office that issued the identification 
card remained in custody Friday. The United States is pressing Yemeni 
authorities leading the probe to allow U.S. agents a greater role 
in the investigation, and there are reports the two sides are about 
to reach a compromise where the Americans would be present during 
the interrogation of sources and suspects. Cannistraro said if Yemeni 
investigators find proof bin Laden was behind the attack, President 
Saleh would not shy away from naming him ``because it's a foreign, 
not Yemeni'' operation. ``But if they find that there was support 
to the operation from Yemenis themselves in the country, that would 
be a little bit embarrassing. They might try to conceal that,'' he 
said.