In what may be an attempt to buy time for Slobodan Milosevic, Yugoslavia's 
highest court invalidated parts of the presidential election on Wednesday 
after thousands of opposition supporters forced police to back off 
from seizing a strikebound mine. The constitutional court ruling, 
reported by the state news agency Tanjug, came in a case brought by 
the opposition _ which sought to have Vojislav Kostunica declared 
the winner of last month's election. Instead, the court annuled ``parts'' 
of the election, the agency said, adding details of the ruling would 
be made public Thursday. If the presidential vote _ or even parts 
of it _ must be repeated, it means Milosevic retains power longer. 
The announcement came on the eve of a planned mass rally in Belgrade 
that the opposition hoped would be the final push to force Milosevic 
to concede defeat. Milosevic acknowledges Kostunica finished first 
in a five-candidate field on Sept. 24 but without a majority needed 
to avoid a runoff Sunday. The opposition has rejected a runoff. Opposition 
official Goran Svilanovic said he believes the opposition will also 
not agree to take part in a rerun of the first round. ``We have our 
elected president,'' he said. ``These are things we can discuss, but 
my initial reaction is that there can be no bargaining.'' The opposition, 
challenging the official findings of the Federal Electoral Commission, 
went to Yugoslavia's highest court earlier Wednesday, appealing to 
the justices to grant them victory in the presidential elections. 
The court met in emergency session Wednesday to hear complaints by 
the 18-party opposition coalition, maintaining Milosevic's supporters 
manipulated election results by using a sophisticated software program. 
Opposition leaders said they had obtained a copy of the program and 
would use it to illustrate how the vote was rigged to favor Milosevic's 
candidacy. Earlier Wednesday, Milosevic's police abandoned barricades 
at a striking coal mine 25 miles south of Belgrade and mingled with 
thousands of workers seeking to topple the Yugoslav president. The 
turnout gave opposition forces hope that the regime was mortally wounded. 
``The battle for Serbia was won here,'' cried one jubilant opposition 
leader, Dragan Kovacevic. The stunning and swift turn of events at 
the Kolubara mine complex was unprecedented in a former communist 
nation with no history of major worker uprisings. It caught even top 
opposition figures off guard. They rushed to join more than 10,000 
protesters at the mine and predicted Milosevic's quick demise. Opposition 
leaders issued an ``ultimatum'' for Milosevic to resign by 3 p.m. 
Thursday _ the time set for the Belgrade rally. ``This flame will 
engulf the whole of Belgrade,'' said Vladan Batic, an opposition leader. 
In an open letter Wednesday to Milosevic before the court's ruling, 
Kostunica said ``it will be better for you to recognize'' electoral 
defeat or risk ``the danger of open clashes'' nationwide. ``Serbia 
has risen so that one man would leave,'' Kostunica told cheering workers 
and their supporters at the Kolubara mine. Only hours earlier, police 
in riot gear had poured in and occupied the strip mine complex in 
an attempt to break up the largest of the nationwide strikes against 
Milosevic. But the police couldn't contain a swelling crowd that heeded 
the workers' cry for help. With sunset approaching, the police gave 
up. Most withdrew from their barricades and were mingling with strikers 
inside the compound. Supporters of the strikers streamed in on foot 
and in convoys of vehicles. One bus pushed aside a police car blocking 
its way. A few police remained guarding some areas of the mine, but 
made no attempt to control the joyous crowd. From the beginning of 
the civil disobedience campaign launched this week to force Milosevic 
to concede defeat in the election, the mine was a pivotal point. It 
employs 7,000 workers and supplies major power plants. On Tuesday, 
the Milosevic government had threatened ``special measures'' against 
leaders of strikes and road blockades, and Belgrade's prosecutor issued 
arrest orders for 13 opposition leaders involved in organizing the 
walkout at the Kolubara mine. None of the arrests has been carried 
out. The mine walkout was the forerunner of other strikes: the state 
telecommunications company workers announced they would stay off the 
job and city bus drivers and garbage collectors in Belgrade refused 
to work. ``This is (Milosevic's) end,'' said a Kolubara mine worker, 
Dragan Stamenkovic. ``Now the workers have risen.'' Before the court's 
ruling, the government was pushing ahead with plans for the runoff, 
where voters will mark paper ballots bearing the names of Milosevic 
and Kostunica. The opposition insists it is pointless to participate 
because Milosevic will simply cheat again. In July, the Milosevic-controlled 
parliament changed the constitution, removing any requirement for 
a minimum voter turnout. Prime Minister Momir Bulatovic, meanwhile, 
repeated the position that regardless of the election outcome, Milosevic 
can remain in office until his current term expires in June. There 
were also signs that Milosevic's control over the media, until now 
the principal propaganda pillar of his regime, was fraying. The main 
state-run daily in the northern province of Vojvodina declared Wednesday 
that its editorial policy would switch from following the government 
line to reporting on events objectively. Its Wednesday edition for 
the first time carried numerous reports on opposition activities.