On the eve of an election with little more than a dozen of the 34 
Senate races still competitive, Democrats face a Herculean task to 
have any hope of bringing six years of Republican control to an end. 
GOP senators hold a 54-46 margin in the outgoing Congress and go into 
the election with 35 holdovers returning to the 31 Democrats with 
two years or four years left in their terms. But Republicans also 
have a virtual lock on 12 of the 19 seats they are defending; Democrats 
are safe in only 10 of their 15 seats at stake. ``Democrats will have 
to thread the needle electorally to regain the Senate,'' said Marshall 
Wittmann, senior fellow for the Hudson Institute, a conservative public 
policy group. From Florida to Washington state, 11 races appear extremely 
competitive, an unusually high number that means Democrats can take 
over, but only if things break their way. With so many tight races 
and a lack of overriding national issues in the Senate campaigns, 
each party's phone calls, mailings and door-to-door canvassing will 
be crucial. As she has on the eve of the past seven elections, Mary 
Crouse plans to spend Monday evening telephoning fellow Minnesotans 
and asking them to vote Republican. ``It's a formula we've used,'' 
said Crouse, 67, a retired stationery store sales manager from the 
St. Paul, Minn., suburb of Forest Lake. ``And it's worked.'' Multiply 
Crouse by tens of thousands of volunteers, add many millions of dollars 
and sprinkle in drives by dozens of special interest groups, and that 
is what both parties are doing nationally. Also trying to mobilize 
voters are outside groups such as the Christian Coalition, the National 
Rifle Association, the AFL-CIO and the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People. ``Turnout is everything for Democrats,'' 
said Jim Jordan, spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign 
Committee. Without ``first-class turnout operations, we don't win.'' 
Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., predicts his party will retain control. 
``Obviously, both sides understand how important turnout is,'' he 
said. ``We've paid a lot of attention to that.'' Of the 11 races that 
seem closest, seven are for seats now held by Republicans, giving 
Democrats more targets of opportunity. Democrats will have to gain 
five seats to take control. A victory by Democratic presidential nominee 
Al Gore means that Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn., would leave the 
Senate to become vice president and be replaced by a Republican appointed 
by the state's GOP governor, John Rowland. The highest profile Senate 
race is in New York, where first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton is pitted 
against GOP Rep. Rick Lazio. Capitalizing on the strong feelings Clinton 
engenders with the public, Lazio managed to outraise her $33 million 
to $27 million through mid-October and make the race the second most 
expensive in Senate history and a close contest. The most expensive 
Senate race ever is across the Hudson River in New Jersey, where Democrat 
Jon Corzine, former chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs investment 
bank, is expected to spend more than $60 million of his own money. 
Moderate GOP Rep. Bob Franks has about one-tenth that amount at his 
disposal but has made the race close by making Corzine's spending 
an issue. The previous individual record was set in 1994 by losing 
GOP candidate Michael Huffington, who spent $30 million. Democrat 
Diane Feinstein spent $14.4 million in winning that Senate race, and 
their $44.4 million total was the record until this year. In Missouri, 
GOP Sen. John Ashcroft is facing the widow of his original opponent, 
Democratic Gov. Mel Carnahan, who was killed in a plane crash on Oct. 
16. His death occurred too late for his name to be removed from the 
ballot, but his wife, Jean, has said she would serve if her husband 
outpolls Ashcroft and the new Democratic governor appoints her. The 
only Democratic incumbent in trouble is Virginia Sen. Charles Robb, 
the former Marine combat veteran and son-in-law of President Lyndon 
Johnson. Former Gov. George Allen, son of the former Washington Redskins 
football coach of the same name, is given a good chance of unseating 
Robb. Besides Ashcroft, five other GOP senators face strong challenges. 
Senate Finance Committee Chairman William V. Roth, 79, a 30-year Senate 
veteran from Delaware, has fed concerns about his age by falling twice 
recently, once before television cameras. His challenger is the state's 
popular Democratic Gov. Thomas Carper, 53. Republican Sen. Conrad 
Burns was battling to hold his Montana seat against Democrat Brian 
Schweitzer, a wealthy rancher who tried to focus the election on high 
prescription drug prices. Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., is in a neck-and-neck 
race with Democratic Rep. Debbie Stabenow, a statehouse veteran. Also 
in trouble are Sens. Rod Grams, R-Minn., and Slade Gorton, R-Wash., 
both facing multimillionaire Democratic challengers. In other close 
races, Democrat Bill Nelson seemed to have a shrinking lead over GOP 
Rep. Bill McCollum for a Florida seat that was held by a Republican. 
Former Democratic Gov. Ben Nelson had a slight edge over GOP Attorney 
General Don Stenberg for Nebraska's open Democratic seat. In the House, 
where all 435 seats at stake, Republicans are trying to protect if 
not augment their current 222-209 majority. There are two independents 
and two vacancies. Only three or four dozen House seats are clearly 
in play, so control will hinge on just a few contests. Five of the 
battles are in California, including the nation's most expensive race, 
a fight between GOP Rep. Jim Rogan and Democratic challenger Adam 
Schiff. Kentucky and Florida each had two or three crucial races, 
with others in states including New York, New Jersey, Arkansas, Georgia, 
Connecticut and Washington state.