In the final dramatic days of a marathon campaign, Al Gore cast his 
duel with George W. Bush as a choice between ``two very different 
pathways,'' with the Supreme Court and economic progress in the balance. 
Bidding to regain the White House for the Republicans, Bush brandished 
tax cuts and Social Security reform while accusing Gore of practicing 
the ``politics of scaring people.'' The candidates rallied across 
a handful of battleground states Sunday and intensified their appeals 
to core supporters and undecided voters. Florida and the Midwest were 
in the political epicenter. Pre-election surveys suggested the battle 
could be the closest in generations, and indeed the Senate and the 
House were up for grabs too, with Republicans seeking to retain control. 
National polls gave a narrow edge to Bush in the presidential race 
to Bush, but Gore's support in large battleground states made for 
an unpredictable race to 270 electoral votes and victory. ``I'm asking 
you not only for your vote but for you enthusiasm,'' Gore said during 
one of two stops at black churches in Pennsylvania. ``I want you to 
go the extra mile.'' Bush's exhortations _ ``The voters are there, 
let's turn them out!'' _ took on special significance in Florida, 
where his brother Jeb runs a state that Bush had expected to put away 
weeks ago. In a nod to Cuban-Americans, Bush sprinkled a Miami speech 
with Spanish phrases, including one that translated to, ``We're going 
to take Washington, D.C.!'' and another that represented his middle 
initial and his winning hopes for Tuesday: ``W!'' Salsa music and 
a burst of daylight fireworks punctuated Bush's oratory. Bush, celebrating 
his 23rd wedding anniversary on the campaign trail, said, ``We need 
to get rid of the partisan bickering that has plagued Washington D.C. 
We need to get rid of the politics of anger and ... we need a fresh 
start, folks, after a season of cynicism.'' At the day's second rally, 
on a football field at Florida International University, Bush accused 
Clinton and Gore of being ``talkers, not doers'' and defended anew 
his Social Security and Medicare proposals. ``We need a president 
to bring Republicans and Democrats together to make sure the Social 
Security system works, not only for seniors but for younger workers 
as well,'' Bush said. The Bush plan would allow workers to invest 
some of their Social Security funds in the stock market, seen by Democrats 
as too risky. Gore started the day in hotly contested Pennsylvania, 
where he said that a woman's right to abortion was on the line. `The 
Supreme Court is at stake because the next president, the one you 
pick Tuesday, will pick a majority on the court that will interpret 
our Constitution for the next 30 to 40 years,'' he said, noting that 
Bush has praised conservative justices Clarence Thomas and Antonin 
Scalia. Gore mocked Bush's promise to be a get-along president, aiming 
his words at the large population of seniors citizens in both Pennsylvania 
and Florida. ``The question is, will he get along with HMOs? You'll 
get along with them fine if you kill the patients' bill of rights. 
The drug companies? You'll get along with them if you kill the prescription 
drug benefits for seniors,'' Gore said, concluding, ``There's a choice 
on Tuesday between two different pathways to the future.'' With 26 
states and 225 electoral votes solidly in his column or leaning his 
way, Florida would put Bush at 250 votes and within reach of victory 
depending on results from one of the big Midwestern states or a combination 
of victories in such tossup states as Arkansas, New Mexico, Iowa, 
Delaware, New Hampshire, Maine and Oregon. Even Gore's home state 
of Tennessee was a target for Bush. Gore has 15 states plus the District 
of Columbia solidly in his column or leaning his way, for 241 electoral 
votes. However, that includes 62 votes from swing states where Bush 
has made a big push _ Pennsylvania, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin, 
let alone California and Illinois. To win, Gore seeks to add Florida 
and one or two of the swing states. It was possible Bush might win 
the nationwide popular vote and Gore to prevail in the electoral college. 
That kind of split has happened just three times in the nation's history, 
most recently in 1888. The candidates' travel schedules told the tale. 
Bush, trying to expand the battlefield, dispatched running mate Dick 
Cheney to California while the nominee himself plans to close the 
campaign in Tennessee, Wisconsin, Iowa and Arkansas _ all Democratic 
strongholds during the Clinton-Gore elections. The vice president 
planned a sleepless sojourn through Iowa, Missouri, Michigan and back 
again to Florida _ 30-straight hours before returning home to Tennessee. 
Bush, too, was watching returns from his home state. Democrats conceded 
that Bush had more room for error. ``Just about everything has to 
go right for us,'' said Democratic strategist Dane Strother. One wildcard 
is Green Party candidate Ralph Nader, who threatens to cut into the 
Gore vote in such key states as California, Michigan, Minnesota, Oregon 
and Wisconsin. Nader urged supporters in Washington to ``vote their 
conscience,'' and Gore campaign chairman William Daley said on CBS's 
``Face the Nation'' that Nader ``may make the difference in some states.'' 
A businessman took out a full-page ad in Sunday's New York Times, 
reassuring Nader supporters that ``a vote for Nader is not a vote 
for Bush'' in the Empire State, where Gore is expected to win easily. 
More is at stake Tuesday than the White House. Democrats sought to 
upset Republican control of the House and Senate, while most of the 
11 governor's races on the ballot remained close until the end. Across 
the country: _ Jean Carnahan stepped up the campaign to elect her 
husband to the Senate despite his October death in a plane crash. 
The widow was asked to accept a Senate appointment if Gov. Mel Carnahan 
defeats Sen. John Ashcroft and she said on ABC that his legacy ``is 
too important to let die.'' _ House Speaker Dennis Hastert was in 
Connecticut trying to help Mark Nielsen defeat Rep. James Maloney, 
D-Conn. Connecticut Republicans also hope to defeat Democrat Sam Gejdenson 
in their battle to retain the House. ``This is an important race and 
an important election,'' Hastert said. ``We can win this.'' _About 
200 legislative races tip the balance of power in some 20 states. 
``It's old-time politics, shaking hands, eyeball to eyeball,'' said 
Mike Gaston, a GOP chairman in Clark County, Wash., where Republicans 
hope to overcome a 49-49 split in the House and win three seats to 
take the Senate. _Former President George Bush declared himself ``a 
nervous father'' in Iowa, but predicted victory for his son. President 
Clinton campaigned in Arkansas and said of the Gore-Bush race, ``It's 
close.'' Gore, who has tried to distance himself from the president, 
made a rare reference to the man Bush calls ``The Shadow.'' ``I want 
to thank you and all of Philadelphia for giving Bill Clinton and me 
a chance to bring change to the economy of this country,'' Gore said 
from the pulpit of a black church in Philadelphia. In Florida, the 
race is tighter than expected because Gore raised doubts about Bush's 
plans to privatize portions of Social Security and linked Bush to 
drug companies in the debate over prescription drug coverage. ``Al 
Gore has been relatively successful early on scaring seniors,'' said 
Gov. Jeb Bush who made the rounds of Sunday talk shows. ``Scare. Scare. 
Scare.'' His brother followed script at a West Palm Beach, Fla., rally. 
``Somebody who tries to scare people into the voting booth must not 
be very confident about his own positions. You know what happens Nov. 
7, we're going to reject the politics of scaring folks,'' the Texas 
governor said before flying to Miami, Tampa and Orlando in a busy 
bid to save the state. Like Bush in Florida, Gore was forced Sunday 
to defend once-friendly turf, appearing in Wisconsin _ a state that 
last backed a GOP presidential candidate in 1984.