HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam _ ``This present emergency should not last,'' 
said the top refugee official at the United Nations as desperate people 
jammed onto helicopters and small boats to flee the communist victory 
in Vietnam 25 years ago. But it did. It swelled into a vast, clamorous 
flood of nearly 2 million people, more than half of whom settled in 
the United States. It was an unexpected artifact of the Vietnam War, 
and just as unexpectedly, it continues today. When President Clinton 
visits Vietnam later this month, in the first trip by a sitting U.S. 
president since the end of the Vietnam War, he will arrive in a country 
that is increasingly linked to the United States by an ongoing web 
of migrants who journey from teeming cities like Ho Chi Minh City, 
formerly known as Saigon, to cities and towns across America. The 
result is that 26,000 Vietnamese a year now emigrate to the United 
States, helping to shape both countries and forming one of the half-dozen 
largest flows of immigrants into America from any country in the world. 
``It's going to outlive us all,'' said W. Courtland Robinson, the 
author of a recent book on the refugee exodus. ``I don't think anyone 
in 1975 thought it would last more than a few months or a few years. 
But here we are, all these years later, seeing not just the last vestiges 
but a new manifestation of this migration.'' The immigrants are going, 
they say, in search of an American dream of prosperity and education 
that shines as bright here as anywhere in the world. ``I would go 
too if I had the money,'' said Nguyen Xuan Hien, 74, who is sending 
his 11-year-old granddaughter to join her parents in New Orleans. 
``She'll have a better life there. Conditions here in Vietnam are 
not perfect, you know.'' Most of the immigrants now are part of what 
one consular official called ``an expanding pyramid'' of family reunification 
in which refugee citizens reach back to their homeland to bring their 
parents, children, siblings and spouses _ who then, eventually, will 
send back for more relatives. But some, remarkably a quarter century 
later, are still technically refugees fleeing the distant echo of 
a war. At the rate of nearly 2,000 a year, these refugees include 
the aging survivors of re-education camps and the grown children of 
U.S. soldiers as well as hundreds of participants in a little-known 
program that is still cleaning up the last lingering cases of what 
became a huge refugee-processing bureaucracy. On their journey, they 
are crossing paths with some 100,000 Vietnamese Americans who now 
return every year to visit or do business in Vietnam. This human flow 
will bind the United States and Vietnam for generations to come, but, 
like the war, it also serves to some degree to divide Vietnam. Both 
the migrants and the returnees are mostly from the south, America's 
former ally against the victorious communist north. Although Vietnamese 
attitudes toward America are generally cordial today, there is a warmer 
and more intimate tone to them among many southerners. And it is mainly 
the south that enjoys a notable windfall from this relationship: an 
estimated $2 billion a year sent back to family members from the 2 
million or so ethnic Vietnamese who now live in the United States 
_ double the total amount of foreign aid received by the government. 
Paradoxically, this cash amounts to a far greater contribution to 
Vietnam's economy than these former refugees could have made had the 
police caught them, years ago, and prevented them from fleeing the 
country. In another twist, the same authorities who once imprisoned 
people attempting to flee now appear to be encouraging the last refugee 
cases. ``The Vietnamese government occasionally hassles us about the 
slowness of our processing of these cases,'' said Charles A. Ray, 
the U.S. consul general in Saigon. ``I have on at least four occasions 
gotten a letter from the external relations office complaining that 
our processing is taking too long. It's an odd transaction: these 
are people going on refugee programs.'' Many of those cases involve 
people who have spent much of their lives in refugee camps, trying 
for decades to reach the United States or other countries. When the 
camps around Asia closed down in 1996, more than 100,000 people who 
had failed to gain asylum were obliged _ sometimes forcibly _ to return 
to Vietnam. As part of the deal, the United States promised to interview 
these returnees one more time. Though they are still required to prove 
``a well-founded fear of persecution'' long after hostilities have 
ended, the Vietnamese are often given the benefit of the doubt by 
immigration officials, diplomats say. In numbers of people resettling 
in America, Vietnam now ranks behind only Mexico, China and India 
as well as two traditional sources of immigrants, the Philippines 
and the Dominican Republic. Among the applicants at the consulate 
here the other day was Vu Nguyen, 25, an Amerasian who knows nothing 
about his father but still holds a hope of finding him. He is taking 
with him his 4-year-old son _ the grandson of a U.S. soldier he may 
never know. Le Thi Thu Ngan, 33, was heading to join her new husband, 
a Vietnamese-American who returned here recently, as many do, to find 
a Vietnamese bride. She is a mathematics teacher who speaks no English. 
Le Thi Minh Trang, 28, was going to join her father, a former inmate 
at a re-education camp, bringing along her two small sons. ``I don't 
know if I'll like it there but I'm going for the future of my children,'' 
she said.