The election-day parties usually thrown by American expatriates in 
the Middle East will be muted this year: Alarmed by rising anti-U.S. 
sentiment here, many Americans plan to keep a low profile. In Bahrain, 
the U.S. Embassy has canceled a party planned for Tuesday. And the 
U.S. State Department has warned Americans in the region to be cautious 
because of the anti-U.S. mood, whipped up recently by Israeli-Palestinian 
violence. ``I don't think U.S. citizens are going to be as vocal or 
outspoken on election day,'' said Marcy Fletchall, a U.S. academic 
in the United Arab Emirates. ``In terms of going out and partying 
in large numbers, I don't think that's going to happen,'' said Fletchall, 
who teaches at Zayed University in Dubai. ``We're following the (U.S.) 
consulate's orders.'' Thousands of Arabs have demonstrated against 
the United States in the past five weeks, condemning it for what they 
regard as a pro-Israel position on the deadly Israeli-Palestinian 
clashes. Protesters pelted the U.S. Embassy in Damascus, Syria, with 
stones and pieces of garbage. In Cairo, Egypt, students burned the 
U.S. flag. Riot police had to fire tear gas to disperse protesters 
marching on the U.S. embassies in Amman, Jordan, and Manama. The threat 
to U.S. personnel and property was heightened by the Oct. 12 bombing 
of the USS Cole in Yemen that killed 17 U.S. sailors. In Bahrain, 
spokeswoman Donna Winton said security concerns led the U.S. Embassy 
to cancel an election party planned at a bar in Manama. Instead, the 
embassy will hold an election function on its own premises, Winton 
said. In Israel, where U.S. presidential elections are usually an 
excuse for American residents to cut loose, the U.S. Embassy said 
it would be holding no public events on Tuesday night. Spokesman Larry 
Schwartz said he was not at liberty to say why. But the Israeli newspaper 
Ha'aretz quoted local Republican and Democratic leaders as saying 
they would be no big celebrations because of the prevailing atmosphere. 
Three other U.S. embassies in the Middle East said their election 
night parties would be more discreet than in 1996, but their spokesmen 
would not admit that security was the reason. In Jordan, the U.S. 
Embassy said it would not hold any events on Tuesday night but that 
it would hold a celebration later. In 1996, the embassy sponsored 
an all-night party at a sports club. In Abu Dhabi in the United Arab 
Emirates, the embassy plans to hold a small gathering for invited 
guests. In 1996, the embassy gave a big party at a hotel. In Cairo, 
the ambassador has invited some of the country's estimated 16,000 
Americans to a party at his residence, spokesman Dave Ballard said. 
Ballard said security was not an issue. ``If we'd known there was 
so much demand, we would have had it at one of the hotels as we've 
done in the past,'' he said.