we also want to remind everyone, of course, control of the congress, 
the house and the senate also on the ballot this time. while it's 
always difficult to track the 435 house seats, the senate this year 
is particularly tough to call. the republicans have a 54-46 majority 
going in, and as nbc's lisa myers reports, the congressional races 
will add an extra dimension of drama tomorrow night. with both the 
house and senate up for grabs, all eyes are on endangered incumbents 
like republican senator john ashcroft of missouri in the bizarre position 
of ru a dead man. this is a race that has had a lot of tragedy. a 
lot of unique circumstances. ashcroft's opponent, missouri governor 
mel carnahan, died in a plane crash last month, but is still if he 
wins, his wife says she'll accept an appointment to his senate seat. 
i've decided to do what i think mel would want me to do. what he wants 
all of us to do, to keep fighting with all the strength we can muster 
for the values and ideals that he lived for. ashcroft is one of seven 
senators in trouble. behind or even in the polls. six are republicans. 
79-year-old william roth of delaware hurt by the age issue. he fell 
twice during the campaign. also in tough fights, grams of minnesota, 
abraham of michigan, gorton of washington, and burns of montana. for 
the democrats to win the senate, experts say they probably must defeat 
five of those six republican senators, plus win an open republican 
seat in florida, then hold almost all democratic seats except nevada 
which they expect to lose. democrats are counting on hillary clinton 
winning in new york and senator chuck robb coming from behind to hold 
on in virginia. the key for democrats to capture control of the senate 
is virginia. if they don't hold onto chuck robb's seat, then it's 
almost impossible for them to do it. even if they do, it's still uphill. 
it's still like drawing an inside straight in poker. in the house, 
it's also an uphill battle for the democrats, who need to pick up 
at least six republican seats to win back control. that's tough because 
there are less than three dozen truly competitive house races in 23 
states. democrats would have to win a big chunk of them. at the top 
of the democrats hit jim rogan. being one of the house prosecutors 
during impeachment hurt in his increasingly democratic district. i 
did what i thought was right, and i'm prepared to stand or fall on 
that issue and every other issue that counted. though republicans 
are believed to have a slight edge tomorrow, many house and senate 
races are so close that control of both bodies could depend on a few 
thousand votes in a few states. in fact, both parties already have 
teams ready to demand recounts. lisa myers, nbc news, the capitol. 
one possible key for turnout tomorrow, as always, the weather. it 
looks like it might be a rainy day in parts of the midwest, home to 
many of those crucial battleground states. could be some snow in the 
mountain states, the east and west coast, however, should have fine 
voting weather.