George W. Bush and Al Gore campaigned into the final hours in their 
run for the White House on Monday, seeking last-minute momentum in 
a costly and exhausting race to become the nation's 43rd president. 
The Texas governor said he trusted that Americans had ``heard our 
message'' _ compassionate conservatism and a less intrusive government. 
The vice president urged a Democratic vote to maintain the nation's 
economic prosperity. Gore anticipated a long count on Election Night, 
and joked that his first meal as president-elect would probably be 
breakfast. ``But I'm going to make it a Happy Meal from McDonald's,'' 
he told an Iowa audience. In Florida, Bush was confident he would 
return Republicans to the presidency lost by his father in 1992. ``We've 
laid the groundwork for victory,'' he said, ``now it's up (to us) 
to get people to the polls.'' Candidates for the 107th Congress went 
through their final paces, Republicans and Democrats focusing their 
energy and money on four or five dozen highly contested races likely 
to determine control of the House and the Senate. The polls gave Bush 
a small edge in the popular vote, a position he gained after overtaking 
Gore in public opinion surveys during October. But the decisive Electoral 
College seemed less predictable. It takes 270 electoral votes, a majority, 
to win the White House. Key swing states included Florida (25 electoral 
votes); Pennsylvania (23); and Michigan (18); and an aggressive Bush 
campaign bid as well for Gore strongholds such as California (54) 
and Tennessee (11). Some aides worried that Green Party candidate 
Ralph Nader would damage the vice president's chances of succeeding 
Bill Clinton by diluting the Democratic vote in swing states like 
Oregon and Wisconsin. Under pressure from Democratic liberals to back 
off, Nader countered: ''...The only wasted vote is for someone you 
don't believe in.'' Gore expressed no concern, saying, ``I think by 
tomorrow, particularly with the election this close, most people are 
going to want to participate in the main choice.'' The candidates' 
itinerary and pace told the story on the final day of a long and costly 
campaign. Gore embarked on a 30-hour nonstop journey beginning in 
Iowa, then heading to Missouri, Michigan and Florida before flying 
home early Tuesday morning to Nashville, Tenn. ``I think that what 
is involved in this race is whether or not we are going to have policies 
that keep our economic good times rolling and extend them to the people 
who've not yet shared in those good times,'' the vice president said 
in an early morning interview on NBC's ``Today.'' ``I have a passion 
to do what's right for your family,'' he said later in Flint, Mich., 
touching on issues ranging from health care to campaign finance reform 
to targeted tax cuts. Bush's schedule projected his confidence: from 
Gore's home state of Tennessee, he flew to Wisconsin, Iowa and Arkansas, 
four states that Clinton carried twice, before returning to his residence 
in Austin, Tex. ``My opponent vows to carry his home state,'' Bush 
said in Chattanooga. Gore ``may win Washington DC, but he's not going 
to win Tennessee.'' Later, in Green Bay, Wis., as he has in hundreds 
of stops in the past year, he said a Republican victory would mean 
``a fresh start after a season of cynicism'' in Washington. One survey 
suggested that Bush headed into Election Day with his supporters more 
enthusiastic than Gore's backers, a potential advantage in a close 
race. The poll, by Pew Research Center, found that 32 percent of Bush's 
voters said they strongly support him, compared to 26 percent for 
Gore's supporters. Just beneath the presidential line on the ballot, 
some of the most memorable congressional campaigns in years were nearing 
an end. Democrats need to gain eight seats to wrest control of the 
House; and five in the Senate. Hillary Rodham Clinton, trying to make 
history as the first Lady to win a Senate seat, campaigned through 
New York with comedian Bill Cosby and Buffalo Bills quarterback Doug 
Flutie. ``I know some people say she is from out of state,'' said 
Flutie. ``Doug Flutie's from out of state but we fight hard. We try 
to deliver for Buffalo and she will too.'' Her opponent, Rep. Rick 
Lazio, sought support in the New York City suburbs. In next-door New 
Jersey, investment banker Jon Corzine tested the limits of self-financing. 
Dipping into his own pocketbook for a record $50 million or more, 
he faced a surprising challenge from Rep. Bob Franks. Half a continent 
away, Gore made a pitch for the late Missouri Gov. Mel Carnahan, whose 
name remains on the ballot for a Senate seat. ``You know what we say, 
keep the fires burning,'' the vice president said in St. Louis. ``It 
means to vote for Mel Carnahan and send his partner, who shares his 
hopes and values, to the United States Senate.'' Carnahan's widow, 
Jean, has said she would accept appointment to the Senate if her late 
husband is victorious against Sen. John Ashcroft on Tuesday. Among 
the House races, Rep. Jim Rogan fought to hold his seat in southern 
California in an $8 million battle with State Sen. Adam Schiff that 
will end up to be the costliest House race in history. The results 
will be closely watched in Washington where Rogan was a leader in 
the successful effort to impeach Clinton. The political parties assembled 
massive get-out-the-vote operations. Karl Rove, Bush's chief strategist, 
said that in the campaign's final 10 days, the governor's operation 
would place 70 million phone calls, send 110 million pieces of mail 
and deploy 243,000 volunteers in 28 states. Democrats geared up too, 
buttressed by allies in organized labor and a celebrity or two. Actor 
Jimmy Smits and actress Janelle Maloney, of West Wing, were on the 
final day of a three-day fly-around for Democratic candidates, with 
stops in Iowa, Wisconsin and Illinois. ``Go door to door and keep 
working the phone banks,'' Republican vice presidential candidate 
Dick Cheney told volunteers in Nevada. Sen. Joseph Lieberman, Gore's 
running mate, placed get-out-the-vote calls in Minneapolis. ``Hey 
Marie, believe it or not, this is Joe Lieberman. I am running for 
vice president,'' he told one skeptical voter.