America was electing a president Tuesday in what bid to be the closest 
election in 40 years, choosing between Republican George W. Bush's 
promise to be a ``uniter not a divider'' and Democrat Al Gore's claim 
that he alone has the experience to ``fight for you and win.'' Voters 
also were choosing a new Congress. Exhausted by the effort, the candidates 
_ Bush, the governor of Texas and son of a president, and Gore, the 
vice president, for eight years a presidential understudy _ surrendered 
their fate to the voters and made ready to join millions of their 
fellow citizens at the polls. Bush was casting his ballot in Austin, 
Texas, and making calls to West Coast radio stations to urge voters 
to turn out. He also was calling voters in Michigan, Oregon, Florida, 
Iowa and Wisconsin After some pre-dawn campaigning in Florida, Gore 
was voting in Carthage, Tenn. The earliest results came in moments 
after midnight Tuesday from two New Hampshire towns. In Dixville Notch, 
the result was Bush, 21, Gore 5, Ralph Nader 1. In nearby Hart's Location, 
it was Bush 17, and Gore 13, with one vote for a write-in candidate. 
Before that Election Day ritual, the candidates barnstormed the country 
one last time. Bush hit four states _ Tennessee, Wisconsin, Iowa and 
Arkansas _ that voted for President Clinton and Gore in 1992 and 1996, 
but which polls suggest could go Republican. ``My spirits are high. 
I feel great,'' he told an audience after returning to Austin just 
after midnight. For his part, Gore engaged in marathon campaigning 
through crucial Iowa, Missouri, Michigan and Florida, where he said 
the star-studded crowd of tens thousands that greeted him in Miami's 
fashionable South Beach left him with ``no doubt whatsoever'' of a 
win there. ``Florida is the place where the future is being born,'' 
Gore said. Behind them was the most expensive election in history 
_ $3 billion on presidential and congressional races, about $30 for 
every vote cast _ but one that failed to stir much excitement. In 
addition to replacing Clinton, the people were electing all 435 members 
of the House, 34 senators and 11 governors, filling their state legislatures 
and settling 204 ballot issues in 42 states, ranging from legalizing 
marijuana in Alaska to fluoridating the water in San Antonio, Texas. 
Despite millions of automated phone calls and waves of television 
advertising, analysts predicted that fewer than half the adult population 
would vote, about the same as the 96 million who cast ballots in 1996. 
With peace and prosperity both at hand and not big issues, the fight 
was chiefly over how to divide the spoils: in the big tax cuts the 
Texas governor proposes or in shoring up Medicare, Social Security 
and education, as the vice president favors. Bush portrayed himself 
as more trustworthy and capable of ending bickering in Washington 
_ ``a uniter.'' Gore said his two decades in government give him the 
experience to prevail in taking on the special interests. ``You need 
someone who will fight for you and win and has the experience to do 
so,'' he argued. Bush led in most national polls and enjoyed a potentially 
decisive enthusiasm edge among likely voters. But late polls showed 
a tightening of the race. Gore held fragile leads in many of the swing 
states that may decide the election. An unusually large number of 
states were in the tossup camp _ Florida, New Hampshire, West Virginia, 
Ohio, Michigan, Missouri, Pennsylvania, Oregon, Washington, Wisconsin 
and New Mexico among them. Even Gore's Tennessee and Clinton's Arkansas 
were close calls. Bush was safe in Texas, where he has been a popular 
two-term governor, and had a lock on most of the South. Gore's task 
was complicated by ``Clinton fatigue'' _ a weariness of the sex scandal 
that led to an impeachment ordeal _ and by the base-eroding threat 
posed by the insurgent Nader, who argued both major parties are captives 
of the same corporate money. If Nader can win 5 percent of the national 
vote, his Green Party would be assured of federal financing in 2004. 
The election's apparent closeness raised the remote possibility of 
a Bush victory in the popular vote but a Gore edge where it counts 
in the Electoral College, where each state has as many votes as it 
has seats in Congress. Such outcomes have occurred three times in 
U.S. history, most recently in 1888. The battle for Congress after 
six years of Republican dominance was just as murky. Democrats hoped 
to regain control of the Senate, where the GOP holds sway, 54-46, 
and the House, where Republicans hold a 222-209 majority, with two 
independents and two vacancies. And a Senate tie was possible, with 
the new vice president _ either Republican Dick Cheney or Democrat 
Joseph Lieberman _ casting the vote to decide which party controls. 
Or Sen. Lieberman, still on Connecticut's ballot for re-election, 
could win the vice presidency, forcing him to resign from the Senate 
and possibly throw the chamber to the GOP. For the first time in history, 
a president's wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, sought election to the 
Senate. She faced Republican Rep. Rick Lazio in New York, nominated 
when prostate cancer caused New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani to abandon 
plans to run. Clinton, his wife and daughter Chelsea voted at an elementary 
school in Chappaqua, N.Y. Clinton said he felt sad about not being 
on the ballot, but had come to accept it. ``I've had my time, and 
it was a good time,'' he said. ``I've loved it.'' In five states, 
women were major-party candidates for governor, including Heidi Heitkamp 
of North Dakota, battling her Republican opponent while also battling 
breast cancer. In Missouri, Senate Democratic candidate Mel Carnahan 
remained on the ballot despite the Oct. 16 plane crash that killed 
him. Carnahan's successor as governor, Roger Wilson, promised to appoint 
Carnahan's widow to the seat if Republican incumbent John Ashcroft 
loses.