now, can the democrats win control of the senate? will the housekeep 
us up long past breakfast? two of the most important people in the 
room tonight a sam donaldson and cokie roberts tracking the races 
in the house and senate. iant to go to sam first. we've lir projected 
richard lugar will hold is in senate sneet in indiana. what else have 
you got? let's see whether the democrats can pick up the senate. it's 
possible as you said. maybe not probable. republicans have had an 
edge of 54-46, democrats have to pick up five seats, and as you've 
just said, lugar's is not going to be one of them. there are many 
republican senators incumbents who are in trouble. for instance in 
delaware, bill roth, 79 years of age, issue age is the issue. being 
hard pressed. in michigan, spencer abraham, a first-termer, he too 
is in very tight race. in minnesota, rod grams, another republican 
first termer. hard press prescription drug nip montana, conrad burns. 
has two terms under his belt, but he may not have a third, according 
to the polls. in washington state, slade gorton, he is in trouble 
there. and in missouri, the ghost of a man is chasing john ashcroft, 
mel carnahan killed three weeks ago is still on the ballot. in florida, 
it's an open seat, but connie mack, the republican, is retiring president 
the polls show the democrat is ahead. there are a coue of bright spots 
for the republicans. in nevada, that was an open democratic seat, 
richard bryan retiring, and the republican seems to be ahead there. 
in virginia, chuck robb, two-term democratic senator in a very, very 
tight race. then peter, what's going to happen in new jersey? can 
jon corzine who spent 52 million dollars of his money retain the seat 
for the democrat here in new york state, will hillary rodham clinton 
retain that seat for the democrats and go on to be the democratic 
star? there she is voting, with, yes-indeed, with her husband the 
president. going to be a tight, tight night peter, before we can say 
who is going to control the senate. thank you, sam. that's as anticipated.