chris matthews, hillary is now senator hillary and al gore continues. 
thanks god for us journalists. we're going to have a lot to cover 
the next years. this woman will probably be instantly next to ted 
kennedy the most well-known u.s. senator. the most quoted, she will 
dominate in terms of quotations next year. what else? she certainly 
will dominate conservative mailing listses -- combined. i think she'll 
be the new news, and i think clearly she'll become a target and the 
think the interesting thing will be how does she work in the club? 
it's still a good old boys club in spite of the fact there's more 
women than ever before. can you see hillary clinton the first time 
she walks on to the senate floor and one of the party whips has her 
thumb up or on down and tells her how to vote? what a sight that's 
going to be. i'm afraid no one is ever going to be able to tell hillary 
rodham clinton how to vote. that's one thing that's for including 
her husband. she has very strong opinions. is this going to shake 
up our form of electing senators? we've done it gee graphically so 
many years. bobby kennedy grew up in bronxville. just walk into a 
state based upon their sheer celebrity power and say i would like 
to be your power. sort of the british system. are we going to go there 
in the 21st century? i think we're looking at that. one is the celebrity 
factor, the second is money. you have candidates who can spend $60 
million, $65 million. but everyone knows hillary clinton the day she 
arrives, what an advantage. it also means money, too. the ability 
to move into states where people invite them to come in because they 
need someone to compete. the senate races get this expensive, i think 
you'll see more and more states turning and saying we have to get 
somebody to run for us and we will see the british system where you 
bring someone in to run in a constituency. this may be the real trend 
we're opening up tonight. the white house has dominated press coverage 
from washington since the kennedy administration, fewer and fewer 
big time reporters being assigned to capitol hill. on the same level 
as the white house correspondent. sam donaldson, dan rather, they 
all made their names at the white house. could it now be the top assignment 
on the hill in washington is going to be cover hillary up in the senate? 
i think there's no question, and particularly as you start looking 
to the senate numbers. this could end up a 50-50 senate. in which 
case it will raise the question whether mel carnahan, if he's elected 
in death, despite the fact that the u.s. constitution requires that 
the candidate be alive, and then -- an inhabitant at the time of election, 
you might find that lieberman was elected and not serve, mel carnahan 
elected and obviously cannot serve, what a strange thing. a woman 
who never lived in the state. a guy who has passed away -- one more. 
the vice president doesn't get sworn in until january 20th. he could 
be sponsor in as a senator -- brian, back to you.