The closing of polls in St. Louis was delayed for 45 minutes after 
a state judge ruled that turnout was so heavy there that it had overwhelmed 
the polling places. Circuit Judge Evelyn Baker, in granting a request 
filed by Democrats in the state, had ordered the polls to stay open 
until 10 p.m., three hours longer than in the rest of Missouri. But 
the state's appeals court overturned that ruling, after an appeal 
by Republicans, and ordered the polls in St. Louis to close at 7:45 
p.m. But Vice President Al Gore, the Democratic nominee, stood to 
gain by the voting extension, since he was running far ahead of Gov. 
George Bush of Texas, the Republican nominee, among urban voters. 
The request for a voting extension had been filed by state Sen. William 
Lacey Clay, a Democrat, who is seeking the congressional seat left 
open by the retirement of his father, Bill Clay. Lawyers for Gore 
had joined the state Democrats in asking for the voting extension. 
Lawyers for Bush had fought the extension, and filed the successful 
appeal in the state's appeals court. The voting extension infuriated 
Republicans in Missouri, who said it would unfairly aid both Gore 
and the Senate campaign of the late Gov. Mel Carnahan, the Democrat 
whose name remains on the ballot. If Carnahan, who was killed in a 
plane crash on Oct. 16, wins in the Senate race against Sen. John 
Ashcroft, the Republican, the state's new Democratic governor, Roger 
Wilson, would appoint a candidate to go to the Senate. Carnahan's 
widow, Jean Carnahan, has said she would accept an appointment to 
serve in the Senate. State Sen. Christopher Bond, a Republican, who 
is not seeking re-election, said the extension allowed the Democrats 
to perpetrate a fraud in the election. Democrats, meanwhile, argued 
that the voting rights of people in St. Louis had been denied, since 
a shortage of voting booths left many voters standing in long lines, 
unable to vote. Bekki Cook, the secretary of state in Missouri, had 
earlier predicted an extraordinarily high rate of voting in the state, 
perhaps as much as 66 percent.