Republicans scored an important victory Tuesday when former Gov. George 
Allen defeated Sen. Charles Robb in Virginia, a turnover that gave 
Democrats only a distant chance of regaining control of the Senate. 
The Democrats did win two Republican Senate seats, defeating Sen. 
William Roth of Delaware, the five-termer who heads the Finance Committee, 
and taking the seat vacated in Florida by retiring Sen. Connie Mack. 
But the Robb defeat left them with a steep hill to climb to recapture 
control of the Senate they lost in 1994. The earliest returns for 
the House of Representatives showed no party switches. Republicans 
held onto two sharply contested Kentucky seats, those of Reps. Anne 
Northup in Louisville and Ernie Fletcher in the Lexington-Frankfort 
area. Democrats needed a net gain of seven seats to retake the House, 
which they also lost in 1994. They were assured of one pickup _ in 
California, where no Republican was running to succeed Rep. Matthew 
Martinez, who only became a Republican last spring after losing the 
Democratic primary. With several close races anticipated on the West 
Coast, a final House tally was not expected before Wednesday at the 
earliest. In Washington state, which has three hotly fought House 
races and a competitive Senate battle, officials estimated that as 
many as half the votes would be cast by absentee ballot. They said 
they were not sure how long it would take to count them. In Senate 
races, the already bizarre Missouri contest, where the late Democratic 
governor, Mel Carnahan, was running neck and neck with Sen. John Ashcroft, 
a Republican, took another unusual turn when a federal judge ordered 
the polls held open an extra three hours in St. Louis, where Democrats 
had sought extended hours because of huge lines and a heavy turnout. 
But after less than an hour of extra voting, Republicans, who complained 
that it was unfair to give Democratic St. Louis extra voting time, 
won an appeal to close the polls. The bitterly fought Virginia race, 
where back-to-back television ads competed to call each candidate 
a liar, gave Allen a solid victory, although well short of a landslide. 
Allen rolled up votes in rural areas. A heavy black vote helped Robb, 
but fell short of the overwhelming majorities of more than 90 percent 
he recorded four years ago when he defeated former Lt. Col. Oliver 
North. In the Delaware race, Roth, 79, promised to use his seniority 
to deliver political plums to the tiny state, while Gov. Thomas Carper, 
53, a vowed to bring new energy to the job, in a veiled reference 
to his rival's age. Late in the campaign, Roth fell twice, once on 
camera, which only served to underscore public concerns about his 
health. (NEW MATERIAL FOLLOWS) Going into Tuesday's balloting, the 
margin of control of the House was the closest since 1954, when there 
were 219 Republicans, 215 Democrats and one independent on Election 
Day. In that election, Democrats won 232 seats and Republicans 203. 
This year, there were 222 Republicans, 209 Democrats, two independents 
_ one of whom votes with each party _ and two vacancies, one caused 
by the death of a Republican and the other by the death of a Democrat. 
But after the Republican landslide of 1994 swept out vulnerable Democrats 
and weaker Republicans were thinned out in the 1996 and 1998 elections, 
no more than three dozen seats were left that constituted real battlegrounds, 
and the parties and outside interest groups poured millions of dollars 
into them. Republicans had far more retirements, which led to open 
seats that are usually easier to win than seats that are defended 
by incumbents. Headed into Election Day, both parties had predicted 
they would capture control. The Senate, though, was not that close. 
Headed into Election Day, Republicans held 54 seats while Democrats 
had 46. In both houses, Democratic gains were expected, but a change 
of control seemed unlikely, though not impossible. One test for Democrats 
was their ability to hold seats that had been opened by the retirements 
of Democratic incumbents who would have been easily re-elected. They 
did so in New York with Hillary Rodham Clinton, the first first lady 
to run for office, who won election to the seat held by Daniel Patrick 
Moynihan, the Democrat who had served four terms. She defeated Rep. 
Rick A. Lazio, R-N.Y. The Democrats' task was almost as easy in New 
Jersey, where Jon Corzine, an investment banker, poured $60 million 
of his own money into winning the seat vacated by fellow Democrat 
Frank Lautenberg. Corzine defeated Rep. Bob Franks, R-N.J. In one 
closely watched House race, the Democrats picked up a seat vacated 
by a retiring Republican, Tom Coburn of Oklahoma. Coburn kept his 
pledge to retire after three terms, but his handpicked successor, 
Andy Ewing, was defeated by Brad Carson, a Democratic lawyer.