Republicans scored an important victory Tuesday when former Gov. George 
Allen defeated Sen. Charles Robb in Virginia, a turnover that led 
Democratic leaders to say they would not regain control of the U.S. 
Senate. Even with final results yet to come in several states that 
Democrats hoped to win, Sen. Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority 
leader, said that at best ``we could be at 50-50 in the Senate.'' 
But that would still leave the Senate in Republican hands. Sen. Joseph 
Lieberman of Connecticut, who lost as Vice President Al Gore's running 
mate, will now return to the Senate, eliminating the risk that Gov. 
John G. Rowland could have appointed a Republican to succeed him. 
With Dick Cheney elected vice president, he would preside and cast 
a tie-breaking vote for the Republicans. The Democrats did win three 
Republican Senate seats, defeating Sens. William Roth of Delaware, 
the five-term incumbent who heads the Finance Committee, and Rod Gramms, 
a Minnesota freshman, as well as taking the seat vacated in Florida 
by the retiring Sen. Connie Mack. Incomplete returns for the House 
of Representatives suggested that a Democratic bid to capture control 
there was also faltering. Republicans held on to two sharply contested 
Kentucky seats, those of Reps. Anne Northup in Louisville and Ernie 
Fletcher in the Lexington-Frankfort area. Those results presaged a 
series of victories by incumbents of both parties who had seemed in 
danger this fall. But Samuel Gejdenson, a 20-year Democratic veteran 
from Connecticut, apparently lost to state Rep. Robert Simmons. Democrats 
took an open Republican seat in Oklahoma, but Republicans won Democratic 
seats in Virginia and Pennsylvania, and the parties swapped seats 
on Long Island. In all those races, incumbents were not running again. 
The Democrats needed a net gain of seven seats to retake the House, 
which they also lost in 1994. They had been assured of one pickup 
_ in California, where no Republican was running to succeed Rep. Matthew 
Martinez, who only became a Republican last spring after losing the 
Democratic primary. With several close races anticipated on the West 
Coast, a final House tally was not expected before Wednesday at the 
earliest. In Washington state, which has three hotly fought House 
races and a competitive Senate battle, officials estimated that as 
many as half the votes would be cast by absentee ballot. They said 
they were not sure how long it would take to count them. In Senate 
races, the already bizarre Missouri contest, where the late Democratic 
governor, Mel Carnahan, was running neck and neck with Sen. John Ashcroft, 
a Republican, took another unusual turn when a federal judge ordered 
the polls held open an extra three hours in St. Louis, where Democrats 
had sought extended hours because of huge lines and a heavy turnout. 
But after less than an hour of added voting time, Republicans, who 
complained that it was unfair to give Democratic St. Louis extra voting 
time, won an appeal to close the polls. The bitterly fought Virginia 
race, where back-to-back television ads competed to call each candidate 
a liar, gave Allen a clear but unspectacular victory. Allen rolled 
up votes in rural areas. A heavy black vote helped Robb, but fell 
short of the overwhelming majorities of more than 90 percent he recorded 
four years ago when he defeated former Lt. Col. Oliver North. ``Once 
the Virginia race was called for George Allen, Democrats' odds of 
retaking the Senate became very, very long,'' said Jennifer E. Duffy, 
who tracks Senate races for the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan 
newsletter in Washington. Still, Duffy said, a burden rested on four 
embattled Republicans in Missouri, Montana, Michigan and Washington. 
``If you're John Ashcroft, Conrad Burns, Spence Abraham or Slade Gorton, 
the fate of the Senate sits on your shoulders,'' she said, referring 
to those states' senators. In the Delaware race, Roth, 79, promised 
to use his seniority to deliver political plums to the tiny state, 
while Gov. Thomas Carper, 53, vowed to bring new energy to the job, 
in a veiled reference to his rival's age. Late in the campaign, Roth 
fell twice, once in from of television cameras, and the falls only 
served to underscore public concerns about his health. ``For many 
people, this was a tough choice,'' Carper said in a telephone interview 
Tuesday night, ``but in the end they looked to the future.'' Carper 
sidestepped questions about whether he felt that concerns over Roth's 
health turned the election in the governor's favor. Going into Tuesday's 
balloting, the margin of control of the House was the closest since 
1954, when there were 219 Republicans, 215 Democrats and one independent 
on Election Day. In that election, Democrats won 232 seats and Republicans 
203. This year, there were 222 Republicans, 209 Democrats, two independents 
_ one of whom votes with each party _ and two vacancies, one caused 
by the death of a Republican and the other by the death of a Democrat. 
But after the Republican landslide of 1994 swept out vulnerable Democrats 
and weaker Republicans were thinned out in the 1996 and 1998 elections, 
no more than three dozen seats were left that constituted real battlegrounds, 
and the parties and outside interest groups poured millions of dollars 
into them. Republicans had far more retirements, which led to open 
seats that are usually easier to win than seats that are defended 
by incumbents. Headed into Election Day, both parties had predicted 
they would capture control. The Senate, though, was not that close. 
Headed into Election Day, Republicans held 54 seats while Democrats 
had 46. In both houses, Democratic gains were expected, but a change 
of control seemed unlikely, though not impossible. One test for Democrats 
was their ability to hold seats that had been opened by the retirements 
of Democratic incumbents who could have been easily re-elected themselves. 
They did so in New York with Hillary Rodham Clinton, the first first 
lady to run for office, who won election to the seat held by Daniel 
Patrick Moynihan, the Democrat who had served four terms. She defeated 
Rep. Rick A. Lazio, R-N.Y. The Democrats' task was almost as easy 
in New Jersey, where Jon Corzine, an investment banker, poured $60 
million of his own money into winning the seat vacated by fellow Democrat 
Frank Lautenberg. Corzine defeated Rep. Bob Franks, R-N.J. Democrats 
seemed sure to end the night with gains in the Senate. In the Florida 
contest for Mack's Senate seat, Bill Nelson, the Democratic state 
insurance commissioner, defeated Rep. Bill McCollum, a 20-year House 
veteran and a manager in the impeachment effort against President 
Clinton. In Minnesota, Grams was beaten by Mark Dayton, an heir to 
the Dayton-Hudson department store fortune and a former state auditor. 
In one closely watched House race, the Democrats picked up a seat 
vacated by a retiring Republican, Tom Coburn of Oklahoma. Coburn kept 
his pledge to retire after three terms, but his handpicked successor, 
Andy Ewing, was defeated by Brad Carson, a Democratic lawyer. But 
state Sen. Ed Schrock, a retired admiral, won one of the most heavily 
militarized districts in the country, in Virginia Beach and Norfolk. 
He defeated Jody Wagner, a Norfolk lawyer, to take the seat that opened 
when Owen Picket, a Democrat, retired. In Pennsylvania, state Sen.Melissa 
Hart won a seat that has been Democratic for decades, a seat that 
opened up when Rep. Ron Klink made an unsuccessful effort to unseat 
Sen. Rick Santorum, a freshman Republican. In New York, Felix Grucci, 
a Republican, won the Long Island seat that opened when Michael P. 
Forbes, a Republican turned Democrat, was defeated in the primary. 
In the neighboring district, Steve Israel, the Democrat, defeated 
Joan Johnson for the seat vacated when Lazio ran against Clinton.