In a decision that seems designed to buy time for President Slobodan 
Milosevic, Yugoslavia's highest court Wednesday night annulled parts 
of the Sept. 24 presidential elections, according to the official 
news agency, Tanjug. The decision, which was described only briefly 
on Wednesday night and will be released on Thursday, is likely to 
require a repeat of the first round with the same five candidates. 
It means that there will be no second-round runoff on Sunday between 
Milosevic and his main challenger, Vojislav Kostunica, and that the 
current tussle between Serbia's ruler and his opposition could drag 
on. Kostunica immediately called the decision ``a trap'' and said 
it showed that Milosevic `'is weaker than ever.'' But Kostunica, a 
constitutional lawyer, said he wanted to see the entire decision before 
commenting further. Goran Svilanovic, a party leader in Kostunica's 
coalition, said a repeat of the first round is unacceptable to him, 
but the decision would have to be Kostunica's to make. ``Milosevic 
is offering us everything to get us off the street,'' Svilanovic said. 
``He wants to buy time and stay president until July,'' when his current 
term was originally supposed to expire. Kostunica and his 18-party 
coalition say that he won the first round outright, with 51.4 percent 
of the vote, and that Milosevic and his Federal Election Commission 
stole and manipulated votes to bring Kostunica under 50 percent and 
require a runoff, which had been scheduled for Sunday. Kostunica has 
vowed that he would defend his victory without a runoff, and to that 
end, the opposition has called a massive rally for Thursday in Belgrade, 
the climax to a rolling general strike, intended to push Milosevic 
out of power. In an open letter to Milosevic on Wednesday, Kostunica 
said ``it will be better for you to recognize'' defeat or risk ``the 
danger of open clashes'' throughout Serbia. The court will present 
the opposition yet another set of choices: to accept a new first round 
under the same unfair conditions and with the same potential for vote 
fraud; to reject the court order and try to overthrow Milosevic through 
street pressure; or to continue to try to get international mediators 
to ensure a fair recount of the first round. But the debate over whether 
to participate in Sunday's second round has suddenly become moot. 
On Wednesday, much of Belgrade came to a halt when thousands of students 
marched in protest, blocking traffic. The state communications agency, 
the PTT, went on strike. Many stores were shut and garbage went uncollected. 
Elsewhere in the country, major roads and railways were blocked and 
opposition-run cities were at a near standstill. Kostunica and the 
coalition brought the case to the constitutional court to prove fraud 
in the counting of the votes by the Federal Electoral Commission and 
to get a recount. They did not challenge the voting process itself. 
But the court, according to the official Tanjug news agency, also 
invalidated the voting, which would seem to mean a first-round repeat. 
It is not clear if Kostunica would accept a repeat, or when it would 
be. Some experts said that Milosevic may want first to swear in the 
newly elected federal parliament _ which he and his allies control 
_ and have it set a new date, enabling him to remain president until 
the summer; others said the court decision is likely to specify a 
new date. In his 13 years of ruling Serbia, Milosevic has proven a 
master at using legal wrangles to maneuver himself out of difficulties, 
to buy time and to exhaust his opponents. The key sentence in the 
Tanjug report said only: ``The Federal Constitutional Court has unanimously 
decided to annul the part of the electoral process for the president 
of Yugoslavia relating to voting, determining and announcing the results 
of the vote.'' State television said on Wednesday night that the court 
was writing the decision and that the public would be informed about 
the details of the decision on Thursday. Kostunica's representative 
on the Federal Electoral Commission, Nebojsa Bakarec, said on Wednesday 
night: ``Until I get the decision it's hard to comment. But it seems 
they have annulled everything that happened on the 24th. This is something 
we didn't ask for. We just asked the court to annul the decision about 
the final results.'' Zoran Djindjic, who has led the opposition campaign, 
called the court decision ``the height of cynicism and yet another 
fraud,'' and said that Milosevic, frustrated by earlier attempts to 
overturn the vote, finally ``annulled the elections through the Constitutional 
Court.'' The court did not annul the elections _ also held on Sept. 
24 _ for federal parliament, which Milosevic and his allies won, or 
the local elections, which strengthened opposition control of many 
key Serbian cities and towns.