Republicans appeared on the way to extending their six-year reign 
in the Senate, even as first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton swept to 
a history-making victory by capturing a Senate seat in New York for 
Democrats. Mrs. Clinton swamped Republican Rep. Rick Lazio to become 
the first presidential spouse elected to Congress. Despite her victory, 
Democrats were left having to sweep all five Senate races that were 
still undecided late Tuesday evening. That left the GOP one seat away 
from retaining its hold on the chamber. Republicans held a 54-46 edge 
before the voting. ``There's a positive feeling about incumbents because 
the economy is good, we're at peace, we've balanced the budget, and 
we've had welfare reform,'' Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., 
himself easily re-elected, said during his victory party in Jackson, 
Miss. Even so, Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle of South Dakota 
predicted additional victories and said he was not giving up hope 
that he would be majority leader in the next Congress. ``We've got 
a lot to look forward to tonight,'' he said on CNN. Holding the majority 
would give the Republicans their first eight-year stretch of Senate 
supremacy since the 1932 elections ended 14 years of unbroken GOP 
control. Veteran Democratic Sen. Charles Robb of Virginia, Republican 
Sen. Rod Grams of Minnesota and William Roth, the long-time Delaware 
Republican, all were toppled from office. Roth, 79, chairman of the 
Senate Finance Committee, lost his bid for a sixth term to Delaware 
Democratic Gov. Thomas Carper. Roth's age had become a factor in the 
race after he stumbled twice publicly. Of the 40 percent of voters 
who said Roth's age would hinder his ability to serve effectively, 
nearly nine in 10 said they voted for Carper, according to exit interviews 
by Voter News Service, a consortium of the AP and television networks. 
Striking back for the GOP, Republican George Allen, the former governor 
of Virginia, ousted Robb after two terms in the Senate. Robb, son-in-law 
of President Lyndon Johnson, was the last Democrat holding statewide 
office in the GOP-trending Old Dominion. ``It would be a major disappointment 
to me if the results of this race mean the difference'' in Republicans 
keeping control of Senate, Robb said in his concession speech. But 
in a remark that every victorious candidate would assuredly second, 
Allen told cheering supporters, ``Tonight we begin moving forward 
and it sure is sweet.'' In Minnesota, department store heir Mark Dayton 
used millions of his own money to defeat the conservative Grams, who 
served a low-profile single term and was beset by a divorce and other 
personal problems. Perhaps the evening's most poignant drama involved 
the race for for Republican John Ashcroft's Missouri seat. Ashcroft's 
opponent, Democratic Gov. Mel Carnahan, died in an Oct. 16 plane crash. 
His widow, Jean, said she would accept the new governor's offer to 
appoint her if her husband outpolled Ashcroft. Mrs. Clinton's bitter 
battle against Lazio, the upstart four-term congressman from Long 
Island, became an expensive contest that drew donors from across the 
country in what was partly an emotional proxy referendum on Bill Clinton 
and his presidency. Underlining how Mrs. Clinton's candidacy polarized 
voters, about half of Lazio's supporters said in interviews that they 
were mainly voting against Mrs. Clinton. But despite Lazio's efforts 
to cast Mrs. Clinton as an out-of-state carpetbagger, half of voters 
interviewed said the issue didn't bother them, and strong majorities 
of women, blacks and Hispanics supported her. ``Thank you for opening 
up your minds and your heart, for seeing the possibility of what we 
can do together,'' she told cheering supporters at a Manhattan hotel, 
her beaming husband and daughter, Chelsea, beside her. Democrats got 
a boost in New Jersey where Democrat Jon Corzine, after spending more 
than $60 million of his own fortune, held onto a seat vacated by Democratic 
Sen. Frank Lautenberg. Corzine, a former chief executive officer of 
Goldman Sachs, outspent four-term GOP Rep. Bob Franks by 10-1, making 
it the costliest two-candidate Senate race in history. Franks' effort 
to make Corzine's record-setting expenditures an issue fell short. 
In Florida, Democrat Bill Nelson, the state's insurance commissioner, 
grabbed the seat of Republican Sen. Connie Mack, who is retiring. 
Nelson defeated GOP Rep. Bill McCollum, who was a manager during President 
Clinton's impeachment trial and spent his campaign trying to moderate 
his conservative image. But former Republican Rep. John Ensign nabbed 
the Nevada Senate seat vacated by the retirement of Democratic Sen. 
Richard Bryan. Ensign, who narrowly lost a 1998 Senate bid, easily 
defeated Democrat Ed Bernstein. Sen. Zell Miller, D-Ga., appointed 
to replace the late GOP Sen. Paul Coverdell, easily won the remaining 
four years in Coverdell's term. By capturing more than half the vote 
in a field of seven candidates, the popular former governor averted 
a Nov. 28 runoff. Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn., Democratic presidential 
candidate Al Gore's running mate, won easy re-election to his Senate 
seat. But a Gore victory would make Lieberman vice president, opening 
the door for GOP Connecticut Gov. John Rowland to name a Republican 
to replace him in the Senate. A victory by George W. Bush, the GOP 
presidential contender, would make Dick Cheney vice president, in 
line to break any tie votes in the Senate. Either way, Democrats needed 
51 Senate seats to be assured of a majority. Based on history, neither 
party expected the presidential candidates to have much impact on 
the Senate struggle. The last time a winning presidential candidate's 
party also gained Senate seats was Ronald Reagan's 1980 GOP landslide. 
Three committee chairmen breezed to re-election: Agriculture Committee 
Chairman Richard Lugar of Indiana, Health and Education Committee 
Chairman James Jeffords of Vermont and Judiciary Committee Chairman 
Orrin Hatch of Utah. A Democratic icon, Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, 
first elected in 1962, won his seventh full term. And Sen. Robert 
Byrd, D-W.Va., the second-longest serving senator ever, won his eighth 
term. Also winning re-election were Republican Sens. Mike DeWine of 
Ohio, Bill Frist of Tennessee, Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, Olympia 
Snowe of Maine and Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania. Other incumbents 
re-elected included Democrats Kent Conrad in North Dakota, Jeff Bingaman 
in New Mexico, Diane Feinstein in California, Daniel Akaka in Hawaii 
and Herb Kohl in Wisconsin. Republicans Craig Thomas in Wyoming and 
Jon Kyl in Arizona also won. Republican Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island 
was elected to his own six-year term a year after being appointed 
to the seat after the death of his father, John, who had been a revered 
institution in the state's political scene. Though there were no national 
issues common to the Senate contests, most shared an underlying factor: 
money. From January 1999 through Oct. 18 of this year, 108 candidates 
in the 34 Senate races reported raising $327 million, 52 percent more 
than the same period two years earlier. That excluded the roughly 
$80 million raised by the National Republican Senatorial Committee, 
a figure nearly matched by its counterpart, the Democratic Senatorial 
Campaign Committee. Also untabulated were as many millions of dollars 
in unregulated soft money that corporations, unions and other interest 
groups use to buttress each side. The money spent by Corzine, former 
chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs investment bank, was expected 
to more than double the previous record for a Senate candidate. California 
Republican Rep. Michael Huffington used $30 million in a losing effort 
against Democrat Dianne Feinstein in 1994. Huffington and Feinstein 
combined for $44.4 million, the previous record for total spending 
in a Senate race. The Clinton-Lazio race also surpassed that contest, 
with Lazio reporting spending $33 million through Oct. 18 to Clinton's 
$26 million.