Republicans retained their hold on the Senate for two more years Tuesday 
though by a narrower margin, as Democrats boasted history-making triumphs 
by first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton in New York and a dead governor 
in Missouri. Remarkably, joining Mrs. Clinton in the Senate winners' 
circle was Jean Carnahan, widow of Missouri Democratic Gov. Mel Carnahan, 
killed three weeks ago in a plane crash. In perhaps Election Day's 
most poignant drama, he outpolled GOP Sen. John Ashcroft anyway, and 
she has said she will accept the new governor's appointment to the 
job. ``We remain heirs of a legacy, heirs of a dream,'' Mrs. Carnahan, 
66, told her followers. ``On this night, I pledge to you, rather, 
let's pledge to each other, never let the fire go out.'' No one had 
ever posthumously won election to the Senate, though voters on at 
least three occasions sent deceased candidates to the House. Some 
Republicans have said they might challenge the Carnahan victory, asserting 
that the late governor was no longer a state resident. But for now, 
the Carnahan win assured Democrats at least 47 seats _ more than enough 
to use the minority's power to wreak havoc with the GOP's legislative 
agenda by forcing procedural delays. ``Democratic power was enhanced 
tonight without question,'' Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., 
said in an interview. ``The Senate is never easy,'' conceded Senate 
Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., who easily won re-election himself. 
The three remaining races in Nebraska, Michigan and Washington state 
were all too close to call. Though the GOP majority will be no better 
than 53-47 _ compared to this year's 54-46 margin _ a victory by two-term 
incumbent GOP Conrad Burns in Montana ensured that Republicans would 
have at least 50 of the Senate's 100 seats. That is enough for them 
to control the chamber, no matter if Republican George W. Bush or 
Democratic Vice President Al Gore was elected president. A Gore victory 
would elevate his running mate, Connecticut Sen. Joseph Lieberman, 
to the vice presidency, opening the door for GOP Connecticut Gov. 
John Rowland to name a Republican to replace him in the Senate. A 
victory by Bush would make Dick Cheney vice president, in line to 
break any tie votes in the Senate. Holding the majority gives Republicans 
their first eight-year stretch of Senate supremacy since the 1932 
elections ended 14 years of unbroken GOP control. Of the 29 incumbents 
seeking re-election, three others besides Ashcroft were toppled from 
office by early Wednesday: veteran Democratic Sen. Charles Robb of 
Virginia and GOP Sens. Rod Grams of Minnesota and William Roth of 
Delaware. Roth, 79, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, lost 
his bid for a sixth term to Delaware Democratic Gov. Thomas Carper. 
Roth's age had become a factor in the race after he stumbled twice 
publicly. Of the 40 percent of voters who said Roth's age would hinder 
his ability to serve effectively, nearly nine in 10 said they voted 
for Carper, according to exit interviews by Voter News Service, a 
consortium of the AP and television networks. Republican George Allen, 
the former governor of Virginia, ousted Robb after two terms in the 
Senate. Robb, son-in-law of President Lyndon Johnson, was the last 
Democrat holding statewide office in the GOP-trending Old Dominion. 
``It would be a major disappointment to me if the results of this 
race mean the difference'' in Republicans keeping control of Senate, 
Robb said in his concession speech. But in a remark that every victorious 
candidate would assuredly second, Allen told cheering supporters, 
``Tonight we begin moving forward and it sure is sweet.'' In Minnesota, 
department store heir Mark Dayton used millions of his own money to 
defeat the conservative Grams, who served a low-profile single term 
and was beset by a divorce and other personal problems. Mrs. Clinton's 
bitter battle against Lazio, the upstart four-term congressman from 
Long Island, became an expensive contest that drew donors from across 
the country in what was partly an emotional proxy referendum on Bill 
Clinton and his presidency. Underlining how Mrs. Clinton's candidacy 
polarized voters, about half of Lazio's supporters said in interviews 
that they were mainly voting against Mrs. Clinton. But despite Lazio's 
efforts to cast Mrs. Clinton as an out-of-state carpetbagger, half 
of voters interviewed said the issue didn't bother them, and strong 
majorities of women, blacks and Hispanics supported her. ``Thank you 
for opening up your minds and your heart, for seeing the possibility 
of what we can do together,'' she told cheering supporters at a Manhattan 
hotel, her beaming husband and daughter, Chelsea, beside her. Democrats 
got a boost in New Jersey where Democrat Jon Corzine, after spending 
more than $60 million of his own fortune, held onto a seat vacated 
by Democratic Sen. Frank Lautenberg. Corzine, a former chief executive 
officer of Goldman Sachs, outspent four-term GOP Rep. Bob Franks by 
10-1, making it the costliest two-candidate Senate race in history. 
Franks' effort to make Corzine's record-setting expenditures an issue 
fell short. In Florida, Democrat Bill Nelson, the state's insurance 
commissioner, grabbed the seat of Republican Sen. Connie Mack, who 
is retiring. Nelson defeated GOP Rep. Bill McCollum, who was a manager 
during President Clinton's impeachment trial and spent his campaign 
trying to moderate his conservative image. But former Republican Rep. 
John Ensign nabbed the Nevada Senate seat vacated by the retirement 
of Democratic Sen. Richard Bryan. Ensign, who narrowly lost a 1998 
Senate bid, easily defeated Democrat Ed Bernstein. Sen. Zell Miller, 
D-Ga., appointed to replace the late GOP Sen. Paul Coverdell, easily 
won the remaining four years in Coverdell's term. By capturing more 
than half the vote in a field of seven candidates, the popular former 
governor averted a Nov. 28 runoff. Based on history, neither party 
expected the presidential candidates to have much impact on the Senate 
struggle. The last time a winning presidential candidate's party also 
gained Senate seats was Ronald Reagan's 1980 GOP landslide. Three 
committee chairmen breezed to re-election: Agriculture Committee Chairman 
Richard Lugar of Indiana, Health and Education Committee Chairman 
James Jeffords of Vermont and Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch 
of Utah. A Democratic icon, Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, 
first elected in 1962, won his seventh full term. And Sen. Robert 
Byrd, D-W.Va., the second-longest serving senator ever, won his eighth 
term. Also winning re-election were Republican Sens. Mike DeWine of 
Ohio, Bill Frist of Tennessee, Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, Olympia 
Snowe of Maine and Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania. Other incumbents 
re-elected included Democrats Kent Conrad in North Dakota, Jeff Bingaman 
in New Mexico, Dianne Feinstein in California, Daniel Akaka in Hawaii 
and Herb Kohl in Wisconsin. Republicans Craig Thomas in Wyoming and 
Jon Kyl in Arizona also won. Republican Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island 
was elected to his own six-year term a year after being appointed 
to the seat after the death of his father, John, who had been a revered 
institution in the state's political scene. Though there were no national 
issues common to the Senate contests, most shared an underlying factor: 
money. From January 1999 through Oct. 18 of this year, 108 candidates 
in the 34 Senate races reported raising $327 million, 52 percent more 
than the same period two years earlier. That excluded the roughly 
$80 million raised by the National Republican Senatorial Committee, 
a figure nearly matched by its counterpart, the Democratic Senatorial 
Campaign Committee. Also untabulated were as many millions of dollars 
in unregulated soft money that corporations, unions and other interest 
groups use to buttress each side. The money spent by Corzine, former 
chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs investment bank, was expected 
to more than double the previous record for a Senate candidate. California 
Republican Rep. Michael Huffington used $30 million in a losing effort 
against Democrat Dianne Feinstein in 1994. Huffington and Feinstein 
combined for $44.4 million, the previous record for total spending 
in a Senate race. The Clinton-Lazio race also surpassed that contest, 
with Lazio reporting spending $33 million through Oct. 18 to Clinton's 
$26 million.