In the biggest race of her young career, at the 1964 Olympics, Judy 
Martz choked. In the contest of her life, at the Montana polls, she 
did not. The 57-year-old Republican, a one-time speedskater, was elected 
Tuesday as Montana's first woman governor. And in Delaware, Democratic 
Lt. Gov. Ruth Ann Minner, a statehouse receptionist in the 1970s, 
now gets to run the place. Those gubernatorial victories put women 
in charge of five states _ the highest number in history. But the 
trend did not hold in North Dakota, where Democratic Attorney General 
Heidi Heitkamp battled breast cancer and banker John Hoeven. She was 
diagnosed in September, had her right breast removed, and within a 
week returned to campaigning while undergoing chemotherapy. ``We'll 
just never know what the health challenge meant to me,'' Heitkamp 
said, conceding defeat. Across the country, 11 states elected governors. 
Democrats held seven offices they had at stake, and picked up another 
in West Virginia, where Cecil Underwood, America's oldest governor 
at age 78, lost to Rep. Bob Wise. In Missouri, term limits stopped 
popular Gov. Mel Carnahan from seeking re-election, but death couldn't 
stop him from being elected to the U.S. Senate. The Democrat was killed 
three weeks ago in a plane crash. His wife, Jean Carnahan, has said 
she would accept appointment to assume the seat her husband won. And 
the next Missouri governor is State Treasurer Bob Holden, who edged 
Republican Rep. Jim Talent in a stomach-churning race that wasn't 
declared until nearly 3 a.m. Wednesday. In Vermont, an uproar over 
gay rights failed to cost Gov. Howard Dean the job he's held for four 
terms. The Democrat won his fifth term against a challenger incensed 
over a new law sanctioning same-sex civil unions. Republican Ruth 
Dwyer promised to work toward repealing the measure, which Dean signed 
six months ago. Dean was conciliatory in victory. ``We also have to 
be mindful of those who did not win, those who believe their view 
did not prevail,'' he said. With the incumbent's loss in West Virginia, 
the number of Republican governors will be 29, with 19 Democrats and 
two independents. The GOP held onto power in Utah, where Gov. Mike 
Leavitt easily won; in Montana, where Martz beat state Auditor Mark 
O'Keefe; and in North Dakota, where Hoeven beat Heitkamp. Democrats 
won in Washington, Delaware, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Missouri, 
Vermont, West Virginia and Indiana. Washington incumbent Gary Locke, 
the nation's first Chinese-American governor, defeated former radio 
talk show host John Carlson. Delaware's Minner, who worked as a statehouse 
receptionist some 30 years ago before a lengthy legislative career, 
won 59 percent of the vote to defeat former GOP lawmaker John Burris. 
For New Hampshire, gripped by financial crises in its schools, the 
governor's race was a milestone. Incumbent Jeanne Shaheen reversed 
her opposition and became the first candidate in decades to win without 
taking ``the pledge'' to veto a state income tax. She won 49 percent 
of the vote against former Sen. Gordon Humphrey, who opposed the tax, 
and garnered 44 percent. In North Carolina, Attorney General Mike 
Easley defeated Republican Richard Vinroot, a former mayor of Charlotte, 
by 52 percent to 46 percent. Popular Democratic Gov. James Hunt was 
barred by a term limit from re-election. Gov. Frank O'Bannon won a 
second four-year term in Indiana, defeating Republican Rep. David 
McIntosh by 57 percent to 42 percent. In Vermont, exit polling illustrated 
the divisiveness of same-sex unions. Of 832 responses _ the largest 
sample yet polled on the issue in Vermont _ 51 percent declared themselves 
either enthusiastic or supportive of the law, and 47 percent were 
opposed to or angry about it. The four-point difference was equal 
to the margin of sampling error in the Voter News Service poll.