In an election for the ages, the presidency remains in doubt, the 
House remains Republican by the slenderest of threads and the GOP 
Senate majority teeters, depending in part on the longevity of 97-year-old 
Strom Thurmond. And not even Thurmond, who first won local office 
in 1928, has ever seen another election like this one. And as close 
as it is _ George W. Bush and Al Gore each went to bed early Wednesday 
morning with victory a possibility in the race for the White House 
_ divided government emerged the winner by far. It's a safe bet little 
thought has been given to building a governing majority in a country 
that split its ballots almost exactly down the middle. ``Our campaign 
continues,'' Gore's campaign manager William Daley told hopeful Democrats 
waiting out a long, rainy night in Nashville. ``Unbelievable,'' said 
Bush adviser Karen Hughes after Gore called the Texas governor to 
retract a concession offered in an earlier conversation. Clearly, 
tax cuts, health care, Medicare and a debate over the defense missile 
shield will have to wait for another day. Confirming new Supreme Court 
justices, if any retire, should be interesting. Should Bush win Florida 
and the White House with it, his call for an era of civility in Washington 
will be almost wholly dependent on the Democratic leaders in Congress. 
Should Gore take the oath of office on Jan. 20, 2001, he'd be confronted 
with at least one chamber of Congress controlled by the political 
opposition. Organizing the House for business figures to be, if anything, 
more complicated than it has been the past two years. Republicans 
must elect new chairmen to replace those who were term-limited in 
the heady days of the Contract with America six years ago. Democratic 
leader Dick Gephardt has yet to publicly discuss the results of the 
House elections, or offer any hint of his own plans. ``Dick Gephardt's 
goal was to run against a do-nothing Congress,'' Speaker Dennis Hastert, 
R-Ill., said in an election-night interview. ``Now is the time to 
put politics aside.'' The House trend showed Republicans in control, 
but with a handful of races still out, likely to suffer losses in 
their already meager majority. In the Senate, Democrats whittled the 
Republican advantage by half or more. With a Washington state race 
still too close to call, the GOP held a majority of 50-49. But that 
could yet change if Gore wins the White House and Sen. Joseph Lieberman 
resigns his Senate seat to become vice president. If so, his seat 
would go to a Republican by virtue of Connecticut GOP Gov. John Rowland's 
authority to appoint a replacement. Other possible departures are 
talked about openly by aides in both parties. Thurmond, for example, 
who walks unsteadily on the arm of an aide, is two years from the 
end of his term. All of this makes some of the other remarkable developments 
of the evening seem mundane by comparison. New Yorkers elected first 
lady Hillary Rodham Clinton to the Senate, a first for the spouse 
of a president. Now her husband will have the opportunity to attend 
her oath-taking in the very chamber where he was tried on impeachment 
charges two years ago. Missouri voters cast their ballots for a dead 
man, the late Gov. Mel Carnahan, with full knowledge that his widow 
will be appointed to that seat. Carnahan's victory at the ballot box 
is unlikely to be the last word on that race, though. Republicans 
have talked openly of a lawsuit, noting that the Constitution requires 
a senator to be ``an inhabitant'' of their state when elected. Beyond 
that, the GOP leadership would be confronted with a decision of whether 
to challenge Mrs. Carnahan's credentials. The presidential race alone 
was closer than any in history. By a lot. In 1968, Richard M. Nixon 
barely beat Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey by 0.7 percent of the 
vote. In 1960, John F. Kennedy defeated Nixon by 0.2 percent of the 
vote. But in both those cases, the Electoral College outcome was clear. 
This time, with votes tallied from 96 percent of the precincts, Gore 
had 47,242,846 and Bush had 47,101,968 votes. Green Party candidate 
Ralph Nader was at 3 percent and Pat Buchanan barely registered. The 
Electoral College showed Bush with 246 votes and Gore 255. It takes 
270 to win. Florida, Oregon and New Mexico were unsettled, but the 
Sunshine State was the key. And there, nearly 12 hours after the polls 
closed, Bush held a lead of fewer than 2,000 votes. Recount to follow. 
___ David Espo has covered national politics for The Associated Press 
since 1980.