Reluctant to claim victory for her late husband but confident that 
Mel Carnahan ``would be really proud,'' Jean Carnahan thanked voters 
who elected him U.S. senator three weeks after his death. ``We remain 
heirs of a legacy, bearers of a dream,'' she told supporters gathered 
in St. Louis early Wednesday. Democratic Gov. Roger Wilson had offered 
to appoint her to the Senate if her late husband defeated Republican 
Sen. John Ashcroft on Tuesday. Mrs. Carnahan said she would accept 
the offer to keep her husband's legacy alive. Mel Carnahan led Ashcroft 
by more than 41,000 votes out of 2.3 million cast. ``It has been such 
an incredible outpouring, people making special efforts to take friends 
to polls, people who haven't been involved in politics,'' Mrs. Carnahan 
said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press early Wednesday. 
``They believed in the cause and they wanted to be a part of it,'' 
she said. ``I think he would really be proud of what people have done 
for him.'' The two-term governor died in a plane crash Oct. 16, along 
with the couple's eldest son, Roger, and campaign adviser Chris Sifford. 
Ashcroft, 58, took an eight-day hiatus from campaigning, which he 
said hurt him when polls gave the deceased governor an edge. Ashcroft 
and GOP backers also lashed out at the media, saying journalists were 
suppressing his message. Mrs. Carnahan, 66, conducted a low-key but 
effective campaign, consisting mainly of one news conference, one 
TV commercial and a single interview from the seclusion of the family 
home. Moderate voters _ who account for nearly half the electorate 
_ made the difference for her husband, favoring the Democrat by a 
3-to-2 margin, according to Voter News Service exit polling. Of Carnahan 
voters, better than nine in 10 would have chosen his widow, too, the 
poll found. No one had ever posthumously won election to the Senate, 
though voters on at least three occasions sent deceased candidates 
to the House. Some Republicans have floated the idea of a legal challenge, 
arguing the late governor was not an inhabitant of Missouri, as the 
U.S. Constitution requires. Carnahan supporters must first weather 
allegations of voter fraud in St. Louis. Heavy turnout prompted a 
state judge, at Democrats' request, to keep polls open until 10 p.m. 
After nearly an hour, an appeals court swiftly threw out the order 
and closed the polls. Mrs. Carnahan said she is committed to promoting 
her late husband's ideas and values. ``It appears that many believed 
in that legacy and want that message to be carried on,'' she said.