After a night of suspense and drama, the presidential vote is cast 
but the verdict is unknown. The outcome of the race between Republican 
George W. Bush and Democrat Al Gore hung on an incomplete vote count 
Wednesday in Florida, where fewer than 1,700 votes separated the two 
candidates out of 96 million cast across America. The outcome _ or 
lack of one _ left the nation wondering who would succeed Bill Clinton 
on Jan. 20 and raised the prospect the question would be unanswered 
for days. Gore himself thought he had lost, when the broadcast networks 
projected Bush the winner in Florida _ and thus the nation. The vice 
president telephoned his congratulations to the Texas governor. Then 
he called again and took his concession back. ``There's never been 
a night like this one,'' Gore campaign chairman William Daley said 
at Gore headquarters in Nashville, Tenn. ``This race is simply too 
close to call.'' Standing in the rain, the Nashville crowd chanted, 
``Recount!'' The Associated Press count showed Bush leading by fewer 
than 1,700 votes in Florida, and both the Bush and Gore campaigns 
were sending teams of lawyers to the state Wednesday to keep an eye 
on the recount. Daley said former Secretary of State Warren Christopher 
would oversee the recount for the Democrats. A formal canvass of the 
Florida ballots could take 10 days. The election stacked up as the 
closest race since John F. Kennedy defeated Richard M. Nixon in 1960 
by 118,574 votes, a contest whose outcome was also uncertain until 
the day after the voting. Bush and Gore were both in reach of the 
270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency. As dawn broke in 
the East, Bush has won 29 states for 246 electoral votes. Gore has 
won 18 states plus the District of Columbia for 255. The presidential 
races in New Mexico and Oregon, like Florida, were too close to call. 
Green Party insurgent Ralph Nader failed to get enough votes to qualify 
for federal funding in 2004, but he took enough _ presumably from 
Gore _ to emerge as the potential spoiler to the vice president. The 
congressional race was narrow as well. Before the election, Congress 
was Republican but closely divided and it emerged Republican and even 
more closely divided following Tuesday's voting. Republicans picked 
up six Democratic House seats in scattered states, enough to renew 
their hold for two more years. But their majority shrank when they 
gave back eight other seats elsewhere, including four in California. 
``We figured it was going to be close,'' said House Speaker Dennis 
Hastert, R-Ill. _ and it was. With winners declared in 33 of the 34 
races at stake, Republicans will have at least a 50-48 margin in the 
Senate. Too close to call was the race in Washington state, where 
former Rep. Maria Cantwell was challenging incumbent Republican Sen. 
Slade Gorton. Voters ousted Sen. William V. Roth of Delaware, chairman 
of the Senate Finance Committee and father of the tax-saving Roth 
IRA, as well as four Republicans and Democrat Chuck Robb of Virginia 
Missourians rejected Republican Sen. John Ashcroft, electing instead 
their dead governor, Mel Carnahan, killed three weeks ago in a plane 
crash. His successor has pledged to appoint widow Jean Carnahan, who 
told supporters, ``I pledge to you, rather, let's pledge to each other, 
never let the fire go out.'' In New York, Hillary Rodham Clinton became 
the first president's wife to win a Senate seat. When word of his 
wife's victory came in, President Clinton was on the telephone in 
their hotel suite, talking to a personality named Billy T on Las Vegas 
radio station KCEP, trying to nudge Westerners to the polls. Clinton 
told Billy T he was the first president in history to have a wife 
in the Senate ``and I like it.'' Across the nation, with 98 percent 
of the votes counted, Bush and running mate Dick Cheney had 48 percent 
to 48 percent for Gore and his running mate, Joseph Lieberman, who 
was bidding to become the first Jewish vice president. The Gore-Lieberman 
ticket held a slim lead in the popular vote. Regardless of the outcome 
of the presidential race, Lieberman was guaranteed a job next year. 
He easily won re-election to the Senate from his home state of Connecticut. 
If the Democrats win the White House, he would be replaced by a Republican 
appointed by the state's GOP governor. Bush, whose father, President 
George H.W. Bush, was defeated by Clinton in 1992, had the satisfaction 
of carrying both Clinton's and Gore's home states of Arkansas and 
Tennessee. Bush, in Austin, Texas, ate dinner and said he was worried 
more about what the suspense was doing to his parents than to himself. 
He did not address his supporters, who waited deep into the night 
in a cold rain. And Gore, aides said, went to bed. Voter turnout was 
higher than expected, a notch above 1996, when fewer than half of 
the adult population cast ballots. On Tuesday, between 52 percent 
and 53 percent voted, estimated one turnout expert, Curtis Gans, director 
of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate. ``It's 
kind of neat to be that important,'' said Barbara Garwood, 50, in 
Orlando, Fla., who voted for Bush. She made that comment at a time 
it appeared that Florida had delivered victory to Bush. Some voters 
saw the election as a referendum on Clinton's stewardship. ``I don't 
want another eight years of the kind of administration we've had,'' 
said David Fair, a Knoxville, Tenn., priest who voted for Bush. ``I 
feel our country has become less moral.'' But Gordy Janisse, 48, a 
custodian in St. Clair Shores, Mich., pointed to the economy to explain 
his vote for Gore. ``Why try to fix something that's not broke?'' 
he asked. ``It's common sense.'' Exit polls showed that voters who 
cared most about taxes and world affairs supported Bush, while those 
most concerned about Medicare, prescription drugs, Social Security, 
the economy and education favored Gore. Bush was the solid favorite 
among men and white voters and the wealthy, while Gore won among women, 
blacks, Hispanics and those earning below $30,000 a year, according 
to the exit interviews, which were conducted by Voter News Service, 
a consortium of The Associated Press and the television networks. 
Nader won just 3 percent of the national vote. That was good enough 
to potentially tip several states to Bush _ Florida among them. Thus, 
Nader fell short of the 5 percent of the national vote to qualify 
his party for federal campaign funds in the 2004 elections. But Nader 
was far from disappointed: ``We're in it for the long run.'' ``You 
can't spoil a system spoiled to the core,'' he said to a standing-room 
crowd in the ballroom of the National Press Club. About half of Nader 
voters said in exit polls they would have voted for Gore in a two-way 
race; about 30 percent said they simply would not have voted without 
Nader in the race. ``I voted for Nader because I didn't like any of 
the other candidates,'' said Melissa Larson, 22, a student at the 
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. ``I'd rather have Gore (than Bush), 
but I couldn't bring myself to vote for him.'' The Reform Party's 
candidate, Pat Buchanan, reduced to an asterisk, barely registered. 
Clinton's scandals may have hurt Gore. About two thirds of voters 
said in exit polls that Clinton would be more remembered for scandal 
than for his leadership. Those who considered the scandals as important 
tended to vote for Bush, the polls said.