As a massive popular uprising against Slobodan Milosevic spreads, 
there are signs that even one of the autocratic ruler's mainstays 
_ the pro-government media _ seem to be switching sides. The management 
of such staunchly pro-Milosevic outlets as the official Serbian television 
and the state-run Politika daily are facing demands by usually servile 
journalists and technicians that editorial policies be changed to 
include reports about the opposition. Staff walkouts are likely if 
they don't bend. In central Serbia, several branches of the official 
television have already stopped broadcasting the program from their 
Belgrade headquarters and are opting for their own newscasts. Those 
include reports about opposition claims of electoral fraud by Milosevic 
and objective newscasts free of the insults usually heaped on the 
opposition. Some dailies, such as the state-run Dnevnik newspaper 
in northern Serbia, have either already included reports on opposition 
activities and growing strikes and blockades, or will soon be forced 
to by their rebellious employees. Any loss of control over state media 
for Milosevic is likely the herald of his demise after more than a 
decade of control over Yugoslavia. The slow collapse of Milosevic's 
authority began after Sept. 24 presidential elections. Backers of 
his rival, Vojislav Kostunica, claim outright victory in that balloting, 
something Milosevic's camp has denied. But as a wave of opposition 
strikes and protests have paralyzed Serbia, the main Yugoslav republic, 
discontent also was spreading among staff of state media. ``We demand 
that the editors and journalists ... who are still taking part in 
the biased reporting, to refuse obedience ... and join their colleagues 
who have already distanced themselves from such policies,'' some of 
the state television staff said in a letter carried by Beta news agency. 
The journalists, technicians and producers of state television threatened 
a strike starting Thursday, the day the opposition has summoned all 
supporters to gather in Belgrade for what organizers hope will be 
the largest ever anti-Milosevic rally. A similar simmering rebellion 
was reported by staff of the Politika daily. Elsewhere, one of the 
departments of the state-run radio ceased broadcasts. So did several 
pro-government radios throughout Serbia. The state-run media were 
a key tool in bringing Milosevic to power in Serbia in 1987. Firm 
control over the state television _ the only TV in the whole country 
_ and several newspapers has been a main pillar of Milosevic's rule, 
and the Yugoslav president has fought hard against any attempts of 
a takeover. In March 1991, a protester and a policeman were killed 
in Belgrade during demonstrations called because of the unprecedentedly 
biased reporting of the official television. The TV building in downtown 
Belgrade was guarded with army tanks against the demonstrators. The 
editor-in-chief was finally replaced, but the editorial policies remained 
unchanged and firmly pro-Milosevic. Aware of television's importance 
for Milosevic, NATO bombed the TV headquarters in downtown Belgrade 
during last year's air war against Yugoslavia, killing 16 employees. 
Because most people associate the state media with Milosevic, they 
have become a symbol of his autocratic rule and thus probably the 
most hated state institution among the pro-democracy movement. During 
major anti-Milosevic protests four years ago, the state television 
and Politika buildings were pelted with eggs and stones thrown by 
furious demonstrators.