From BBC news in London, I'm Gregor Craggy for the world. The American 
people have now spoken but it is going to take a little while to determine 
exactly what they said. That was President Clinton's conclusion a 
short while ago as he arrived back in Washington. As the race to succeed 
him remains deadlocked, the president found a silver lining in today's 
extraordinary situation. No American will ever be able to seriously 
say again my vote doesn't count. A crucial recount is now underway 
in Florida. The state holds the key to the fate of both Al Gore and 
George W. Bush, Prisilla Huff reports. In Florida the recount is proceeding 
slowly. George W Bush is confident he is the next occupant of the 
White House. Al Gore cautions the process is ongoing. Let me make 
my own resolve clear. No matter what the outcome, America will make 
the transition to a new administration with dignity, with full respect 
for the freely expressed will of the people and with pride in the 
democracy we're privileged to share. As the tally is checked and double-checked, 
rumors are flying of all kinds of vote are fraud. Election officials 
are being very cautious. So fat Gore has gained some votes in the 
recount and the margin of difference is slim. For the World I'm Prissila 
Huff in Washington. The election has also produced a tight outcome 
in Congress. Democrats have captured a few seats but not enough to 
take the narrow majority the Republicans still hold in both houses. 
Susan Marmian has more. In California, Republicans lost 4 seats in 
the House Of Representatives for a total of 8 seats given over to 
Democrats nationwide. But Democrats lost 6 seats of their own, which 
means Republicans have squeaked by with a majority for another 2 years. 
Republicans will also continue to rule the roost in the Senate although 
now by a narrower margin. One of the seats Republicans lost in the 
Senate went to a Missouri Democrat. Residents there voted to send 
their beloved Democratic Governor Mell Cornaheim to Congress. Cornahaim 
diet in the plane crash while campaigning last month making him the 
first dead man ever to win a spot in the US Senate. His widow is expected 
to take his place. For the World I'm Susan Marmian. In New York Hillary 
Clinton won her Senate race. She is the first, First Lady elected 
to public office but she says there is no chance, she will run for 
the White House in 4 years. No I am going to serve my 6 years as the 
Junior Senator from New York. I felt very gratified that so many people 
were working so hard on behalf of a positive campaign about the issues. 
The Republican still hold at least 50 seats in the Senate, Democrats 
have gained two seats in the house, but still trail the Republicans 
by nine. Voters in 42 states also decided on a range of policy proposals 
and in Alabama they lifted a 99-year-old unenforceable ban on interracial 
marriage. Voters also approved background checks for all gun buyers 
at gun shows in Colorado and Oregon and in Arizona they ended bilingual 
education. BBC news, for the World I'm Gregor Craggy.