It was a strange and unusual Senate race: A dead man and his widow 
running against an incumbent. And the outcome was just as unusual, 
if not unlikely: They won. On the day after, the loser, Sen. John 
Ashcroft, a Republican, announced that he would not challenge the 
results, essentially assuring that Jean Carnahan, 66, wife of the 
late Gov. Mel Carnahan, the Democratic candidate, would fill the Senate 
seat. Carnahan won with 50 percent of the vote, compared with 48 percent 
for Ashcroft. The margin of victory was about 49,000 votes. Ashcroft 
also said Wednesday that he would discourage other Republicans from 
challenging the outcome of Tuesday's election, something that Republicans 
had privately said they might do. ``You have to know when people speak 
with clarity, how to take orders,'' Ashcroft said Wednesday, adding 
that voters had clearly demonstrated their wishes. ``I reject any 
legal challenge to this election. I will discourage others from challenging 
the will of the people in the selection of their United States senator.'' 
He added: ``I believe the will of the people has been expressed with 
compassion. The people should be respected and heard.'' Jean Carnahan 
did not speak publicly Wednesday afternoon. But Tony Wyche, a Carnahan 
campaign spokesman, expressed cautious optimism about Ashcroft's assurances, 
saying he was not convinced that other Republicans would not challenge 
the outcome in court. ``That concern still exists,'' Wyche said. ``There 
still are rumblings out there that we hope are just rumblings.'' Republicans 
had considered a legal challenge, contending that the election of 
a dead man raised constitutional questions. Late Tuesday, some Republicans 
here also claimed that Democrats had been given an unfair advantage 
when polls in heavily Democratic St. Louis were kept open 45 minutes 
later than in the rest of the state. Circuit Judge Evelyn Baker ordered 
the voting extension on Tuesday night, saying a lack of voting booths 
and equipment had deprived some residents of the right to cast ballots. 
Baker ordered the polls to remain open an additional three hours, 
but a state appellate court overturned her ruling, and the polls were 
closed just before 8 p.m. Sen. Christopher S. Bond, R-Mo., said the 
extension amounted to voter fraud and had threatened to ask federal 
prosecutors to investigate. Baker had been appointed to the bench 
by Bond, when he was governor. But Ashcroft said Wednesday that he 
would not participate in any challenge, despite what he called ``serious 
allegations of fraud and corruption'' in St. Louis. Bond issued a 
similar statement. The race for the Senate seat in Missouri was one 
of the most hotly contested in the country and also the most bizarre. 
While on his way to a rally on Oct. 16, Carnahan, 66, was killed in 
a plance crash, along with his oldest son and a political adviser. 
It appeared then, even to Democrats who had hoped to regain control 
of the Senate and who were counting on a win in Missouri, that this 
race was over. But polls soon showed another surprising twist _ that 
the race was still up for grabs. Polls showed that even though he 
was dead, Carnahan was running neck and neck with his opponent. It 
was already too late to remove his name from the ballot, which meant 
that he was still running, even if in name only. Within days of Carnahan's 
death, it became apparent that Democrats hoped to revive the campaign 
with his widow as the most likely person to replace him. The new governor, 
Roger Wilson, announced that he would appoint Jean Carnahan to fill 
the seat should her husband win. After Carnahan's death, Ashcroft 
found his campaign in an awkward position, running against a dead 
man and essentially also against his widow. Rick Hardy, a political 
science professor at the University of Missouri in Columbia, said 
Ashcroft was overwhelmed by a campaign of ``emotion and symbolism.'' 
``Carnahan was popular as a governor,'' Hardy said, ``and in death, 
he became much more popular.'' Still, Ashcroft said that he had no 
``regrets about the way we handled things'' and that he hoped the 
election would be ``a matter of comfort for Mrs. Carnahan.'' Asked 
whether he would ever seek office again, Ashcroft replied, ``The last 
thing I want to do is think about running for public office again.''