Praising Missouri for being a ``compassionate state,'' Republican 
John Ashcroft conceded the Senate election to the late Gov. Mel Carnahan, 
paving the way for his widow to assume the seat. ``I hope the outcome 
of this election is a comfort to Mrs. Carnahan,'' Ashcroft said in 
an emotional speech Wednesday while surrounded by family and two dozen 
supporters at his suburban St. Louis headquarters. Mel Carnahan _ 
whose named remained on the ballot after being killed in a plane crash 
on the way to a campaign rally three weeks ago _ outpolled Ashcroft 
by more than 48,000 votes out of 2.36 million cast Tuesday. Never 
before in U.S. history has anyone posthumously won election to the 
Senate, though voters on at least three occasions chose deceased candidates 
for the House. ``Missouri is a compassionate state and, I think, in 
a very special way, they have demonstrated their compassion,'' Ashcroft 
said. Before the election, Roger Wilson, the new Democratic governor, 
said that if Carnahan won, he would appoint his 66-year-old widow, 
Jean Carnahan, to the Senate. She would take on the position after 
Ashcroft's term ends Jan. 3, and would serve until the next general 
election, in 2002. Ashcroft, a former two-term governor, state attorney 
general and auditor, said he plans to go back to his farm near Springfield 
after his term ends. ``I look forward to spending time with my wife, 
Janet,'' Ashcroft, 58, said, breaking off to fight back tears as his 
wife laid her head on his shoulder. He said he does not want to think 
about whether he will seek the same seat in 2002 or any other office. 
Ashcroft also rejected the possibility of a challenge to the election, 
saying he will not take part in any legal action and will discourage 
others from doing so. Some Republicans had argued that at the time 
of the election, Carnahan was not _ as the U.S. Constitution requires 
_ a Missouri inhabitant, because he was dead. Also, the Missouri GOP 
has urged an investigation into possible voter fraud in St. Louis 
on Tuesday. ``I don't think my election hinged on voter fraud in the 
city,'' Ashcroft said. ``I lost this race because I didn't get as 
many votes as my opponent did.'' A Voter News Service exit poll of 
1,431 Missouri voters found Ashcroft had strong support from the third 
of voters who called themselves conservatives. But self-proclaimed 
moderates, who made up nearly half of the state electorate, favored 
his opponent. About three-fifths of moderates said they voted for 
Carnahan. Results were subject to a sampling error of plus or minus 
3.5 percentage points for all voters, higher for subgroups. Political 
observers applauded Ashcroft's speech. ``He's a smart man and a smart 
politician, and he did everything perfectly in terms of doing what 
he should have done, being gracious, being sensitive and not closing 
a single door,'' said Ken Warren, a Saint Louis University political 
science professor. After the plane crash, Ashcroft took an eight-day 
hiatus from campaigning, which he said hurt him in the polls. If Ashcroft 
is known as the first Senate candidate ever to lose to a dead person, 
Warren said, it won't be a negative association. ``Ashcroft had an 
impossible job,'' he said. ``The whole situation developed very late 
in the campaign, where the bounce Carnahan got from his tragic death 
did not dissipate in time for Ashcroft to rebound himself from having 
to stand on the sidelines while Carnahan was praised.'' Mrs. Carnahan 
conducted a low-key but effective effort consisting mainly of one 
news conference, one TV commercial and a single interview from the 
family home. Early Wednesday, she spoke to hundreds of St. Louis-area 
supporters from her home in Rolla. ``We remain heirs of a legacy, 
bearers of a dream,'' Mrs. Carnahan said. ``On this night, I pledge 
to you _ rather, let us pledge to each other _ we will never let the 
fire go out. God bless you always.''