It was a day of mourning in the West African nation of Ivory Coast 
today. A massive funeral ceremony was held at a sports stadium in 
the commercial capital of Abidjan for those killed last month in violence 
following contest of presidential elections. The unrest led to the 
overthrow of the country's military leader General Robert Guei who 
had tried to hold on to power despite his defeat at the polls. New 
President Lauran Gbagbo has since pledged to work for national unity 
and today he told thousands of mourners at the stadium ceremony that 
he will strive for peace and reconciliation. The BBC's Mark Doyal 
filed this report from Abidjan. They died, the funeral obituary said, 
in the name of democracy. The shock of what happened here in late 
October is still sinking in. Some 200 dead, may be more, to oust a 
military regime. This woman representing the mothers of the victims 
said Ivory Coast had changed from being a peaceful country to one 
that she no longer recognized. In the football stadium, it soon became 
apparent that the funeral ceremony was also to be a victory rally 
for President Gbagbo, his name chanted from the stands. A veteran 
opponent of military and single party civilian rule, Lauran Gbagbo 
made a call for national reconciliation, a nod in the direction of 
healing old wounds. But he was also victorious. After twenty years 
of opposing undemocratic governance, Lauran Gbagbo was in his element. 
The single party days and the days of military coups were over he 
said, 'Finit'. While few people would question Lauran Gbagbo's right 
to a victory celebration, after all he is widely believed to have 
won the elections the military tried to steal, some of his fellow 
Heads of State, including the powerful Presidents of South Africa 
and Nigeria are worried. They have called for fresh elections, partly 
because some of the other potential candidates were excluded by the 
military from the October polls. But most Ivorians, and not surprisingly 
Lauran Gbagbo himself, disagree. The new Ivory Coast leader got a 
roar of approval when he told the crowd he would tell foreign leaders 
who called for new elections to leave Ivory Coast to sort out its 
own problems. The mood of the crowd at the funeral ceremony was a 
mixture of sadness for the dead and anger for those seem to be responsible. 
These pro- Gbagbo students are chanting a war song to taunt the soldiers 
they overthrew. Emotions are running high here and few people think 
that Ivory Coast's political turmoil is over yet. For The World, I 
am Mark Doyal in Abidjan.