A suspect in the bombing of the destroyer Cole has told Yemeni authorities 
that the Islamic militants behind the attack tried to bomb another 
warship in January, but aborted the assault after their explosives-packed 
skiff foundered near the beach, government officials said on Thursday 
night. The account of the aborted attack came from a suspect being 
questioned by Yemeni authorities, who have shared the information 
with American investigators, the officials said. One official said 
it was impossible to verify the account, but said American investigators 
believed the suspect was providing credible information that was useful 
in the inquiry into the Cole attack on Oct. 12, which killed 17 U.S. 
sailors. In the account, first reported by ABC News on Thursday evening, 
the suspect said the suicide bombers originally planned their attack 
on an American warship refueling in the Yemeni port in Aden in January. 
ABC reported the attack was aimed at another destroyer, the Sullivans, 
which stopped in Yemen on Jan. 3. However, the officials said, it 
was not clear whether the Sullivans or another warship on a separate 
visit in January was the target. The aborted attack appears to have 
been part of a coordinated terrorist plot over the millennium holiday 
period, which included a separate attack that was foiled when Jordanian 
officials arrested 13 Islamic militants, the officials said. American 
authorities also foiled what they said was a terrorist attack when 
customs agents arrested an Algerian named Ahmed Ressam as he drove 
a car with explosives into the United States from Canada. American 
officials have said that those plots were coordinated by militants 
linked to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile accused of bombing the 
American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998. If the suspect's 
account is confirmed, it would provide investigators with more evidence 
that the attack on the Cole is linked to bin Laden. Yemeni authorities 
have said they are holding several suspects in the attack, but so 
far they have been unwilling to allow agents of the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation to participate in their questioning. American investigators 
said that getting direct access to the suspects, which has been the 
subject of intensive diplomatic negotiations, was crucial to the investigation. 
The officials said the suspect, who has not been identified by name, 
was providing much information into the attack on the Cole, suggesting 
it was the work of a large, highly coordinated group with significant 
financing and support from outside Yemen. ``They were planning this 
for well over a year,'' a senior administration official said. ``They 
had planned to do it earlier, but failed.'' (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) 
The officials said that the attempted attack in January had not been 
detected at the time and was impossible to verify independently. However, 
a government official said investigators were operating under the 
assumption the suspect's information was credible. ``I don't think 
we have any reason to doubt the information we have,'' the official 
said. If true, however, an earlier attack like the one against the 
Cole may have been narrowly averted by the bungling of the attackers. 
The suspect, in his account, said the two suicide bombers aborted 
the attack when their skiff began to sink, apparently because it was 
overloaded with explosives, the officials said. The senior administration 
official said that after the failed attempt, the militants retrieved 
the skiff and began refitting it with explosives for the bombing of 
the Cole. Some of those involved in the Cole attack _ it was not clear 
how many _ fled Yemen for a time only to return when planning resumed 
for the bombing last month, the official said. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) 
After the attack on the Cole, the Pentagon heightened the state of 
alert at U.S. bases throughout the region, fearing a new wave of coordinated 
attacks. In Kuwait on Thursday, the Interior Ministry announced that 
the authorities had arrested three people and seized a large amount 
of explosives in what they believed was a plot to attack U.S. troops 
in the country. In Washington, an administration official said those 
arrests appeared to be related to a specific terrorist threat that 
prompted the Pentagon to order troops in Kuwait to the highest level 
of alert called threat condition delta. The official said it was not 
clear whether the suspects in Kuwait were linked to those involved 
in attacking the Cole. The Cole left Yemen last Sunday carried aboard 
a Norwegian transport ship. The Navy announced today that it would 
not return to its home port in Norfolk, Va., but rather to Pascagoula, 
Miss., for repairs that are expected to cost $150 million.