The White House said Thursday ``the business of America goes on'' 
despite the election's uncertainty, and President Clinton will go 
overseas next week for farewell meetings with the leaders of Russia 
and China and a visit to communist Vietnam. ``There are no plans to 
cancel,'' said National Security Adviser Sandy Berger. ``Pack your 
bags.'' The postelection trip had been planned for months but came 
into question amid the agonizing suspense over who won the presidential 
race between Republican George W. Bush and Democrat Al Gore. Recounts 
and legal challenges could keep the outcome a mystery for days or 
weeks. ``This is not a constitutional crisis,'' presidential spokesman 
Jake Siewert said, trying to calm anxieties. ``The president will 
serve until Jan. 20 as the Constitution dictates.'' Clinton will be 
the first U.S. president to visit Vietnam since Richard M. Nixon in 
1969. Saying the trip was on, Berger said, ``The business of the presidency 
goes on. The business of America goes on.'' The White House view was 
echoed by former Secretary of State Warren Christopher, sent to Florida 
by Gore to oversee the recount. ``Let me assure you that the presidency 
goes on until Jan. 20th in a vigorous way,'' Christopher said, ``and 
none of our allies are in any doubt as to who's in charge of the government 
until Jan. 20. There will be a new president then, but not before.'' 
The president leaves Sunday for a summit with more than 20 Asia-Pacific 
leaders in Brunei, an independent sultanate on the northwest coast 
of the island of Borneo in the South China Sea. He will stop off in 
Hawaii for a day and reach Brunei Tuesday evening after crossing the 
international dateline. On the sidelines of the summit, Clinton will 
see Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Jiang Zemin. 
The president also will meet with South Korean President Kim Dae-jung 
and Japanese Prime Yoshiro Mori. On Thursday evening, Clinton will 
fly to Vietnam for a three-day stay, visiting Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh 
City, former known as Saigon. It will be the first visit ever to a 
unified Vietnam by an American president. It comes 25 years after 
U.S.-backed South Vietnam surrendered unconditionally to the forces 
of North Vietnam. The president will visit an MIA excavation site 
on a hillside rice paddy outside Hanoi on Saturday and take part in 
a ceremony marking the repatriation of the remains of several U.S. 
soldiers being sent to Hawaii for identification. Berger said there 
was ``full cooperation'' by Vietnam in trying to resolve MIA issues. 
``We have not finished this job,'' he said. ``There remain roughly 
2,000 unaccounted for.'' Clinton will be accompanied by his wife, 
Hillary, and their daughter, Chelsea. The president has invited officials 
of POW-MIA groups to join him. A group of American business leaders 
also will go to Vietnam. The White House said many members of Congress 
had expressed interest in going but might be held back by the lame-duck 
session of the House and Senate beginning next week. Clinton, an anti-war 
protester during his college years who struggled to avoid the draft, 
has undertaken a cautious rapprochement with Vietnam. In 1994 he lifted 
the trade embargo against Vietnam and the next year restored diplomatic 
relations. He reopened the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi in 1996 and in 1998 
issued his first waiver of a law that bars trade relations with communist 
nations that deny citizens the right to emigrate. In July, after four 
years of negotiations, the United States and Vietnam reached a sweeping 
trade agreement allowing for generally unfettered commerce for the 
first time since the war. Berger said that ``Vietnam should be seen 
not only as a war but also as a country. We are not closing a chapter 
here. We're opening a new chapter in the relationship.''