At least three plots against American targets in Yemen failed in the 
past year before last month's suicide bombing of the USS Cole, Yemeni 
sources close to the investigation said Saturday. More than one suspect 
in Yemeni custody being questioned in connection with the Oct. 12 
Cole bombing has admitted to involvement in a campaign targeting Americans 
in Yemen, the sources said, insisting on anonymity. They did not provide 
a specific number but did say the suspects belong to the Islamic Jihad 
and other Islamic groups. The Islamic Jihad is linked to America's 
No. 1 terror suspect, Osama bin Laden. In the first week of November 
1999, Yemeni authorities foiled plans to blow up a convoy of U.S. 
military personnel heading to Yemen's National Center for the Removal 
of Land Mines hours before the operation was to be carried out, the 
sources said. Yemeni security forces discovered the explosives _ planted 
about one mile away from the hotel where the Americans were staying 
_ and defused them, sources said. Suspects being questioned in the 
Cole explosion gave detailed information regarding the route the Americans 
took to and from the center, where U.S. military personnel give Yemenis 
technical training on removing land mines, the sources said. It is 
estimated that more that than 30 Americans _ all military _ were at 
the center when the explosives were set to go off. When that attempt 
fell apart, the sources said the suspects made plans to attack the 
Royal Hotel, near the port in Aden, where most of the American servicemen 
were staying. It wasn't immediately clear when that operation was 
to be carried out, and no details were available on why it failed. 
An attack similar to the one carried out on the Cole was aborted in 
January when the attackers realized their boat had been overloaded 
with explosives and was not seaworthy, the sources said. ABC News, 
citing intelligence sources, has reported that the target of that 
attack was the USS The Sullivans, a destroyer that refueled in Yemen 
on Jan. 3. In Washington, a U.S. intelligence official has confirmed 
that some of the same people thought to have been involved in the 
Cole attack botched a similar attack 10 months ago against a U.S. 
warship that had stopped to refuel in Aden harbor. Seventeen sailors 
were killed and 39 others were injured when the Cole was bombed Oct. 
12.