President Clinton leaves for East Asia today to attend the annual 
Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation Summit held this year in Brunei. 
The meeting of leaders from the 21 Pacific Rim countries is expected 
to be the last major international conference and last overseas trip 
for Mr. Clinton as a US President. Mr. Clinton will travel to Vietnam 
on Friday, making him the first US President to visit that country 
since the end of the Vietnam War in 1975. Analysts say the trip will 
help heal some of the long-standing wounds that still linger from 
the war. But as VOA's Stephanie Mann reports, there are still several 
difficult issues to be resolved. In addition to meeting officials 
in Hanoi and Ho Chi Min City, President Clinton is scheduled to preside 
over a ceremony for the repatriation of remains believed to be US 
servicemen listed as missing from the Vietnam War. Analysts say the 
President's visit formerly closes the door on a difficult period, 
stemming from the US involvement in the Vietnam War in the 1960s and 
1970s. Gordon Flake is executive director of the Mansfield Center 
for Pacific Affairs, a Washington-based public policy institute. Having 
what I think in my perspective is an overdo visit of the US President 
to Vietnam, symbolizes that not only have we now signed a bilateral 
trade agreement, but that things are back to normal. The normal relationship 
between normal nation states that have normal interests, but that 
unfortunate era in the 60s and 70s is behind us. Asia analyst Douglas 
Paul says because Vietnam won the war, it has been easier for them 
to put the rancor of that period behind them. He says Americans had 
a harder time handling defeat and the lingering problems, such as 
identifying the servicemen listed as missing and dealing with the 
possibility of prisoners of war. The two countries established diplomatic 
relations five years ago. Gordon Flake says the President's trip has 
symbolic importance as a reward for the years of effort by Vietnam 
to meet US requirements for normalizing relations. Douglas Paul, President 
of the Asia Pacific Policy Center in Washington agrees the President's 
visit can be seen as a reward for Vietnam. But Mr. Paul says it will 
not make further improvements in relations much easier, as long as 
hard line communists remain in power in Hanoi. I don't think there's 
going to be a whole lot happening in Vietnam. Many corporate interests 
that had seen 60 million well-educated workers in the Vietnamese body 
politics have been disappointed because the communist party won't 
release its stranglehold on the energies of those people and continues 
to try to run enterprises in Vietnam. The United States and Vietnam 
signed a trade agreement in July aimed at reducing trade barriers 
and opening markets. Implementation of the agreement is awaiting US 
Congressional approval and action by Vietnam to put in place the necessary 
laws and regulations. Larry Worthsal, the director of Asian studies 
at the Heritage Foundation in Washington, says reform-minded officials 
in Vietnam want to push forward steps to implement trade liberalization. 
But he says the country's communist leaders see the trade reforms 
as contrary to the ideals of Vietnam's revolution. Mr. Worthsal says 
the President's trip may encourage pro-Western reformers, but he questions 
whether the trip is really justified at this time. I don't know why, 
at the close of the presidency, when there is so much reluctance in 
Vietnam to develop a legal framework, and they don't expect to develop 
a legal framework until 2006, what the urgency is for a visit right 
now. Mr. Worthsal says the United States can help Vietnam develop 
its legal system and can continue to help Vietnam with humanitarian 
issues. For example, he points to US efforts to help people still 
suffering from the effects of the defoliant agent Orange that was 
used during the war. Vietnam has repeatedly called on the United States 
to provide more aid to help deal with the consequences of the war. 
Foreign Minister Nguyen Dy Nien says the two countries are jointly 
researching the effects of agent Orange, but he says the Vietnamese 
people are still suffering and need more immediate help. News reports 
say during his visit, President Clinton is not likely to present any 
additional war-related aid. But he is expected to announce US funding 
to help Vietnam combat the spread of the HIV infection. Stephanie 
Mann, VOA News, Washington.