Weeks after he disappeared when street protests forced him from power, 
Ivory Coast's former junta chief reappeared Monday and held talks 
with President Laurent Gbagbo, the one-time opposition leader who 
now holds power in the West African nation. After a surprise meeting 
with Gen. Robert Guei, Gbagbo said it was important that Ivory Coast 
``find the way to reconciliation.'' He said he did not know what would 
happen to Guei, who was forced to flee following flawed Oct. 22 elections 
that ignited widespread protests. ``It's not for me to take such a 
decision. I am neither judge nor police officer,'' he said, adding: 
``I hope that he returns home, that he regains his family.'' In a 
prepared statement, Guei said the meeting was ``based on the context 
of a search for peace and national reconciliation.'' But he said little 
of substance, other than to insist that he had ordered his soldiers 
not to fire on demonstrators during the protests last month. Witnesses 
have said they saw soldiers firing directly into unarmed crowds. After 
his disappearance, various reports put Guei in Liberia, Benin, rural 
Ivory Coast and France. Neither man commented Monday on Guei's recent 
whereabouts and it was unclear when the meeting had been arranged, 
and how long Guei had been in touch with Gbagbo's government. Guei 
refused to say whether he had retired from the army, though he urged 
``his brothers in arms to put themselves at the disposition of their 
chief,'' an apparent reference to Gbagbo. The two men met on the estate 
of the late Ivory Coast leader, Felix Houphouet-Boigny, and held at 
least some of their talks in the presence of one of Houphouet-Boigny's 
sisters, said Freedom Neruda, a top adviser to Gbagbo. Though he died 
seven years ago, the memory of Houphouet-Boigny _ Ivory Coast's founding 
president and a longtime autocrat who led through more than 30 years 
of stable and relatively prosperous rule _ still casts a long shadow. 
Gbagbo, a longtime Houphouet-Boigny opponent, has had difficult relations 
with some politicians who consider themselves the former president's 
ideological followers. Monday's meeting may have been planned for 
Yamoussoukro, Houphouet-Boigny's home village and Ivory Coast's official 
capital, as a symbolic gesture to those politicians. Yamoussoukro 
is located about 150 miles south of Abidjan, the country's main city, 
where most of the government operates. Neruda said the talks were 
mediated by Mathieu Ekra, head of a reconciliation committee established 
after three days of clashes swept Abidjan and other cities, killing 
at least 200 people _ and perhaps twice that number. The clashes began 
Oct. 24 when Guei dissolved the commission overseeing the presidential 
elections and declared himself the winner _ despite early results 
indicating Gbagbo was in the lead. Furious, Gbagbo urged his followers 
into the streets. Guei was forced to flee once the security forces 
joined the massive protests. But protests continued, spearheaded by 
disgruntled opposition supporters who said their leader, Alassane 
Dramane Ouattara, was unfairly barred from contesting the election. 
Ouattara's party says at least 155 of its mostly northern Muslim supporters 
were killed and more than 300 injured as security force members joined 
Gbagbo supporters in sectarian attacks over the next few days. Ouattara's 
support comes mainly from ethnic groups in Ivory Coast's largely Muslim 
north while Gbagbo's base is among the country's southern Christians.