President Clinton, at a farewell summit in Asia, assured world leaders 
Wednesday the United States is unshaken by the election impasse at 
home. ``The world can rest easy,'' he declared, adding that both Al 
Gore and George W. Bush support expanded trade and a global economy. 
``This has been a rather interesting week in the United States,'' 
he said. The president spoke to business leaders at the Empire Hotel 
and Country Club, an opulent resort on Jerudong Beach on the South 
China Sea. It is one of the most extravagant buildings in Brunei, 
built with Italian marble and 24-carat gold inlays in wall panels. 
``After I saw this facility I did not believe this was a small economy,'' 
Clinton joked. Clinton was meeting with 20 Pacific Rim leaders at 
the annual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. He also was talking 
on the sidelines with the leaders of Russia, China, Japan and South 
Korea. Around the world the U.S. election dispute, whose outcome hinges 
on the vote count in Florida, has confounded many people. The president 
talked lightheartedly about the election. ``One of the things that 
I think we have learned is that we should all be very careful about 
making predictions about the future,'' the president said. ``I know 
I can safely predict this will be my last APEC summit. I just don't 
know who will be here next year.'' Asked what he would do after leaving 
the White House, Clinton noted the election of his wife, Hillary Rodham 
Clinton, to the Senate. ``Now I have a United States senator to support. 
I understand that's an expensive proposition,'' he joked. More seriously, 
Clinton said he wants to be ``a useful citizen of both my country 
and the world'' and pursue efforts to make the world a better place. 
However, he said he would ``do it in a way that does not get in the 
way of my successor. The United States can have only one president 
at a time,'' he said. But he added with a smile, ``I'll be around.'' 
In his remarks, Clinton stressed the importance of open markets and 
societies and called for the start of a new round of global trade 
talks next year. He said that both Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President 
Al Gore were committed to a more integrated global economy and expanded 
trade. ``On the question of leadership for trade,'' Clinton said, 
``the world can rest easy because both our candidates made strong 
commitments to do that.'' In his meeting with leaders, Clinton was 
prepared to talk about the election. ``The president will express 
his confidence that this is proceeding under the rule of law and in 
conjunction with set procedures that exist at our state level and 
that it is democracy in action,'' National Security Council spokesman 
P.J. Crowley said. ``Meanwhile, our government remains open for business, 
and he is out here at APEC doing the country's business,'' Crowley 
said. The president was accompanied by his daughter, Chelsea, and 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright as he arrived the opulent Empire 
Hotel to address business leaders. Clinton's visit to Brunei, an oil-rich 
sultanate in northern Borneo in the South China Sea, is the prelude 
to a visit to Vietnam, the first by an American president since 1969. 
On the sidelines, Clinton will meet privately with Russian President 
Vladimir Putin and South Korean President Kim Dae-jung on Wednesday. 
He will see Chinese President Jiang Zemin and Japanese Prime Minister 
Yoshiro Mori on Thursday. ``The president will be very much focusing 
on reinforcing the benefits of an open global economy'' as Asia begins 
to regain its footing from financial crisis, said Gene Sperling, director 
of the National Economic Council. When the leaders gathered in Malaysia 
two years ago, there was much to worry about. Indonesia had a minus-13 
percent growth and South Korea had a minus-7 percent. But now, Sperling 
said, ``You look at dramatic turnarounds in most of these countries 
where now they are looking at their second year of positive growth.'' 
He said the United States would press its case for a moratorium on 
customs duties on Internet commerce. But the high point of the trip 
will be Clinton's visits to Hanoi, the capital of a unified Vietnam, 
and to Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon. The trip beginning Thursday 
is the first ever to a unified Vietnam by an American president. It 
comes 25 years after U.S.-backed South Vietnam surrendered to North 
Vietnam, leaving in doubt the fate of many Americans classified as 
missing in action. Clinton said he hoped his trip would open ``a new 
page in our relationship with Vietnam. And hopefully one that will 
put an end to the divisions between the Vietnamese people and the 
American people'' and within the United States and Vietnam.