This is the World. I am Tony Kahn. At an international meeting in 
Brunei today President Clinton assured foreign leaders that there 
is nothing to worry about in the overtime contest to choose his successor. 
Then Mr. Clinton addressed the conference of the Asia-Pacific Economic 
Co-operation Forum. His subject: globalization. You have felt both 
its great benefits and its temporary but brutal sting. On balance, 
the global economy and more open markets clearly have been a positive 
force in Asia and indeed around the world. Tomorrow President Clinton 
will fly to a country he intends to cite as an example of the positive 
force of more open markets, Vietnam. Vietnamese leaders hope globalization 
will reverse the country's high-tech brain drain to the west. The 
World's Odlone Cussin reports from Hanoi. Almost everyone seems to 
be studying English and many preparing for foreign university entrance 
exams. Almost 1,600 Vietnamese studied in the US in the 1998-99 school 
year, 31% increase from the year before and that number continues 
to grow. Bill Clinton will not ignore Vietnam's students during his 
visit. He will give a speech at Hanoi's National University, a speech 
that is expected to be broadcast live. Young people in Vietnam are 
especially needed in the so-called knowledge economy. In the offices 
of FPT, a fast growing Internet service provider in Hanoi, the average 
age of the 700 employees is a mere 26. FPT's deputy director Chu Than 
Ha, herself 26 years old, says anyone with the money to go abroad 
does. I think for young people in Vietnam now, we want to learn to 
get experience from foreign country as a student. If they have the 
tradition, for example ,if the parents have money to support them 
to go to other country like Australia, US , after that come back to 
Vietnam and to work. Others don't feel the urgency to leave though. 
22-year-old Wen Tu Cha who works at FPT as an e-commerce developer 
says government restrictions on the Internet and news make her job 
more difficult. She says many of her classmates simply chose to leave, 
mostly for the United States. But Wen says she is staying, at least 
for now. Many, many of my friends think that we should go abroad and 
then stay there because they have more liberty, they have more facilities 
and equipments to develop yourself, but I don't think so. Maybe you 
think that working conditions in Vietnam is not as good as in the 
United States, but if you can improve it yourself you'd feel more 
happy. According to a government plan announced this year, Vietnam 
needs to have 25,000 software engineers by 2005, but there are only 
about 1,500 today. Could explain low government investment for the 
problem, the universities just don't get enough money to keep up-to-date 
on information technology. Indeed, that is precisely why Wen's friends 
are leaving. At another hi-tech company CMC Computers the benefits 
of going abroad appear clear. Ha The Minh is the director of the company, 
which has 250 employees and an annual growth of 40%. You cannot prevent 
it. They are going to west and may be the environment in the west 
is much better. They may stay there for a few years, let's say 5 years, 
10 years and in the nice day they should come back and that people 
will be like the key leaders to create the new business in Vietnam. 
But Ha concedes he could only start his company because he first spent 
3 years working in a Vietnamese government ministry. He says infrastructure 
and educational problems still plague Vietnam and not many of the 
young people who go abroad now are coming back. For the sake of his 
business Ha says he hopes President Clinton's visit and increased 
US investment in Vietnam will help change that soon. For The World 
this is Odlon Cussin in Hanoi. President Clinton's visit probably 
won't change Vietnam's economy as much as a bilateral trade pact will. 
David Dapist, chief economist for the Vietnam project at Harvard University's 
Kennedy school of government, says that once that agreement is ratified, 
it will rectify what the Vietnamese currently consider an unfair trade 
relationship. Right now it is legal to trade but on manufactured goods 
particularly the US imposes very high tariffs. The result of the bilateral 
trade agreement would be to treat Vietnam like every other country, 
including China and allow their goods to come in on an equal basis. 
And after the Congress approves the pact, trade between the two countries 
will increase both ways but especially Vietnam will find it much easier 
to export their manufactured goods. What is the symbolic significance 
of the President of the United States going to Vietnam in terms of 
the impact it really is going to have in continuing relations and 
trade relations between the US and Vietnam? Is he there just to show 
up or is he actually going to be able to do some business? I don't 
think he will do business in the normal sense of negotiating more 
things. That part has been done. I think it is symbolic in the sense 
that he is saying we would like to start a new chapter, that we are 
no longer trying to undermine the government, as many fear. President 
Clinton's visit will be successful if he can lay to rest some of those 
fears and let them realize that the development of their economy and 
society will occur not because we are planning or plotting it but 
simply because of the natural processes that all countries go through. 
Give us, if you can, just a quick kind of picture of the economy of 
Vietnam. Is Vietnam in a sense a unified country now? Economically, 
politically, does it have one basic set of problems or are they regional? 
The South is the economic powerhouse. The competitive industries, 
most of the exports, the rice bowl, the oil all come from the south. 
The North has the political power, it has rather inefficient, import 
substituting heavy industries that need tariff subsidies and so on. 
I think one reason that they are going so slow on reform is that the 
North is afraid that further reform would further strengthen the South, 
and that upsets the political balance, such as it is, and that is 
one of several things that they are nervous about. What about the 
Vietnamese themselves? What is it about them that you find especially 
impressive? Well, aside from the fact that they often win prizes in 
the Math Olympics, and that is not true of every country, I think 
one little story will get the idea across of just how much promise 
the country has. If you go down to Ho Ching Ming City you will find 
a kind of French pastry restaurant shop that is kind of upscale and 
the owner that I know had hired a French pastry chef trained in Paris 
and he made excellent pastries. And after 4 or 5 months he found a 
Vietnamese woman, he decided to marry, move back to France and made 
the announcement rather suddenly. My friend was at a loss for what 
to do until the guard who watched the shop at night went to him and 
said, I will do the pastries. He had been watching the guy at 3 in 
the morning when he came in and had learned himself how to make pastries 
and without missing a beat they were able to turn out excellent French 
pastries because the Vietnamese guard had learned on his own how to 
do what takes months or years of training in many other situations. 
The country has immense promise and if the rules are set so that people 
are allowed to work it would do very, very well. David Dapist is Chief 
Economist at the Vietnam program at Harvard University's Kennedy School 
of Government. Thanks again. Thank you. It has been a pleasure.