President Clinton has no intention of apologizing in Vietnam for the 
war he bitterly opposed, with his ambassador to Hanoi saying the United 
States has already transformed relations with its onetime enemy ``from 
pretty awful to pretty good.'' ``I don't necessarily think anyone 
is looking for an apology,'' Ambassador Pete Peterson said Wednesday 
on the eve of Clinton's visit to Vietnam, the first by a U.S. president 
since the fall of Saigon and the communist takeover in 1975. Clinton's 
anti-war youth probably is well known in Vietnam, Peterson said, but 
``it's never mentioned to me and I doubt seriously if there will be 
any reference to it at all during his visit.'' Not officially, but 
Clinton's personal history as a war protestor and in avoiding the 
Vietnam draft are an unavoidable backdrop to his historic visit. He 
is the third president to go to Vietnam _ the first ever to Hanoi 
and the first to a unified Vietnam. Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard 
M. Nixon made swift, undisclosed visits to what was then a war zone 
to rally American troops. A former POW, Peterson said, ``I don't think 
there's very much postwar animosity'' in Vietnam. Eighty percent of 
Vietnamese are under 40 years old, he said, and the average youngster 
knows as much about the war ``as one of our high school students somewhere 
in America _ which is probably almost nothing.'' Before setting out 
Thursday, Clinton and Pacific Rim leaders closed the 21-nation summit 
of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum by calling for a new 
round of World Trade Organization talks next year. Clinton, who had 
played golf until 2 a.m. at a lighted course, also was talking separately 
with Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori and Chinese President Jiang 
Zemin. Following their golf game, Singapore Prime Minister Goh Chok 
Tong and Clinton announced on Thursday that they have agreed to start 
negotiations on a bilateral free trade agreement. Clinton took time 
to sign a resolution authorizing federal government spending to continue 
through Dec. 5, the day the 106th Congress expects to return to work. 
The legislation was brought to Brunei for Clinton's signature by a 
White House aide on a commercial airline flight. Two months before 
he leaves office, the president also held farewell talks Wednesday 
with Russian President Vladimir Putin and South Korean President Kim 
Dae-jung. Clinton said summit leaders were interested in the unsettled 
election for the White House. He told Putin and others ``there's nothing 
to worry about.'' With Putin at his side in the lobby of a lavish 
Brunei guest house, Clinton said, ``I think other leaders should have 
the same reaction the American people have. ``I think they're pretty 
relaxed about it and we'll let the process play out.'' Putin, through 
a translator, said Moscow is anxious but is respectfully awaiting 
the outcome. He said Clinton has led a breakthrough in U.S.-Russian 
relations, ``and we expect this torch to be given to whoever will 
be the successor.'' The United States showed little interest in a 
proposal by Putin for deeper cuts in strategic arms than current U.S.-Russia 
arms accords would provide. Putin's offer ``generally does not contain 
many new elements,'' a senior U.S. official said, but there are a 
``few new twists'' which the administration will study. In Clinton's 
talks with Kim, the South Korean leader said he ``clearly sees value'' 
in a Clinton visit to North Korea, but that the United States must 
decide if such a trip was in its national interest. Wendy Sherman, 
a top State Department official, said Clinton would decide soon whether 
to make the historic trip. Earlier, there had been talk that Clinton 
would visit Pyongyang at the end of his Asia trip, but the White House 
scrapped it. The president will spend three days in Vietnam. He will 
speak to students at Hanoi National University and his speech will 
be broadcast live by Vietnam Television. Clinton will visit a rice 
paddy near Hanoi where searchers are looking for remains at a site 
where it is believed Air Force Capt. Lawrence G. Evert, of Cody, Wyo., 
crashed in an F-105 jet on Nov. 8, 1967. At a briefing Thursday, White 
House press secretary Jake Siewert said the United States has provided 
more than 400,000 pages of documentation to help locate Vietnamese 
and American soldiers missing in action. ``We're prepared to provide 
more documentation that could help narrow the search for some of those 
who are missing,'' Siewert said. Peterson, in a telephone briefing 
from Hanoi, told reporters accompanying Clinton that the president 
would see a communist Vietnam that has achieved significant progress 
in political reforms, economic conditions and human rights. He said 
human rights are ``not near where we want it to be.'' However, he 
said, ``We could condemn the entire police force of Philadelphia or 
Los Angeles or St. Louis or whatever for an act that gets captured 
on TV or in the print but that doesn't say that the whole police force 
is without compassion. That's just not accurate. And the same is true 
for Vietnam.'' En route to Asia, Clinton was asked if the United States 
owes Vietnam an apology for the war. ``No, I don't,'' he replied. 
Picking up on that sentiment, Peterson said, ``To be honest with you, 
I don't think an apology is nearly as important as a constructive 
engagement.'' Clinton has undertaken a cautious re-engagement with 
Vietnam. He lifted a trade embargo in 1994; the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi 
opened in 1996. And last July, after four years of negotiations, the 
United States and Vietnam reached agreement on allowing generally 
unfettered commerce for the first time since the war. ``We have moved 
the relationship from pretty awful to pretty good,'' Peterson said.