More than a quarter century after a war that cost 58,000 American 
lives and shaped the politics of his generation, President Clinton 
arrived here Thursday night promising a new relationship with Vietnam, 
a country that is at once fascinated by its former enemy and deeply 
ambivalent about opening its society and economy to a world that America 
dominates. As he stepped into the cool nighttime air here, with barely 
two months left in office, Clinton became the first president to set 
foot in Vietnam since Richard Nixon made an unscheduled six-hour visit 
to U.S. troops outside Saigon in 1969, and the only one to visit Hanoi, 
which as the headquarters the North Vietnamese command was the target 
of countless U.S. bombing sorties. Clinton opposed the war as a young 
man, and did not serve in the military. But on this trip he plans 
to focus resolutely on the future. He has made Vietnam a test case 
of his proposition that deepening commercial ties create a powerful 
gravitational pull that can draw former enemies, even hard-line communist 
governments, into gradual alignment with the West. It is still far 
from clear that experiment will work here. Thursday night, Air Force 
One lazily descended through the same skies where B-52s once flew, 
coming in low over rice paddies that once were dotted with bomb craters, 
and now bear billboards advertising Korean-made cars and electronics. 
A motorcade sped the president over the Red River into one of Asia's 
most gracious capitals, where people began to line the streets in 
groups of a dozen or so, almost none of them old enough to remember 
the war. By just before midnight the crowd grew to thousands as Clinton, 
in a limousine bearing Washington, D.C. license plates, drove by on 
the way to his hotel, just a mile or so from the simple house where 
Ho Chi Minh and his generals prosecuted the war. But that carefully-preserved 
site, one of the city's most-visited attractions, and the mausoleum 
nearby where Ho's body is on display, have been carefully omitted 
from Clinton's three-day itinerary. So have most other reminders of 
the past. Save for a trip Saturday morning to a site where investigators 
believe they have just found the remains of a U.S. pilot whose plane 
crashed outside the city 35 years ago _ one of 1,499 Americans still 
unaccounted for in Vietnam _ the White House has said Clinton will 
not be looking back at the war. On Friday Clinton will be greeted 
by President Tran Duc Luong and will give a speech at Hanoi National 
University that Vietnamese officials have just announced they will 
broadcast nationwide. Besides Hanoi, Clinton will also visit Ho Chi 
Minh City, the former Saigon, before leaving Vietnam on Sunday. What 
little he has said on this trip suggests that Clinton's time as president 
_ and the decisions he has had to make about military interventions 
_ has led him to think differently about the hard choices, from bombing 
the north to expanding the U.S. military presence here, that President 
Lyndon Johnson made. ``I see now how hard it was for him,'' Clinton 
said the other day, on his way to Brunei. ``I believe he did what 
he thought was right under the circumstances.'' The president added: 
``One of the things that I have learned, too, is when you decide to 
employ force, there will always be unintended consequences.'' Asked 
if America owes Vietnam is owed an apology, though, he quickly said: 
``No, I don't,'' and left it at that. Instead, he wants to focus on 
Vietnam's economic and political potential. In Brunei during an economic 
summit, Clinton noted that this year, for the first time, Vietnam 
is the chair of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEAN, 
``which means it is heading an organization that was invented to contain 
it.'' Clinton was preceded here earlier Thursday by his wife, Senator-elect 
Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., who went shopping on one of Hanoi's 
main streets and drew a crowd of hundreds of curious residents. On 
Friday, Mrs. Clinton is scheduled to visit a village outside of Hanoi. 
President Clinton will spend a considerable part of the visit celebrating 
the results of his seven-year-long effort to draw Vietnam out of its 
self-imposed economic isolation, and his bet that both Vietnam and 
China will discover that prosperity in the information age necessitates 
a measure of political openness and the free flow of information. 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) In fact, Clinton and the U.S. ambassador here, 
Pete Peterson, a former prisoner of war in the now-demolished Hanoi 
Hilton, argue that personal freedoms have improved since the administration 
made its overtures to the country in 1994. That year Clinton lifted 
the trade embargo that had been in place since the fall of Saigon 
25 years ago. With the support of former POWs in Congress, including 
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., he offered diplomatic recognition to Vietnam 
in 1995. He dispatched his secretary of state at the time, Warren 
Christopher, to lay the groundwork for a new relationship, and Christopher 
warned that economic reform was akin to ``a passage over a ravine. 
You cannot do it by taking several little steps; only one giant leap 
will get you across.'' The Vietnamese ignored him. It took five years 
to negotiate a comprehensive trade agreement that promises - but hardly 
guarantees - far more vigorous economic ties between the United States 
and a nation of 78 million. But in the interim many foreign companies 
that poured in here in the early 1990s have pulled up stakes in frustration. 
Peterson argues that U.S. executives overstate the difficulties of 
dealing with Vietnamese bureaucracy and corruption, but he acknowledged 
the other day that Clinton will ``see a country that is eight years 
old, not 4,000.'' (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Clinton arrives in the midst 
of a fierce division within the Vietnamese government over whether 
the prospect of reversing a huge decline in foreign investment by 
opening up the country is worth the threat to the Communist Party's 
rule. In an echo of the debate underway in China, Vietnam's top Communist 
leader, Le Kha Phieu. warned in February that the battle with the 
West continues, on battlefields that bear little resemblance to lush 
fields of Hue or the rocky harbor at Haiphong. ``They continue to 
seek ways to completely wipe out the remaining socialist countries 
and attack the movements for independence, democracy and social progress,'' 
he said. ``We should never relax our vigilance for a minute.'' So 
it is Clinton's challenge over the next three days to accomplish what 
John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon could not achieve: 
To win the hearts and minds of the Vietnamese people.