Thank you Dave, I'm Tony Riggs along with Robert Burns bringing you 
this hour of VOA News now. The discovery of notes written by sailors 
trapped inside the Kursk raised new questions about the delayed and 
ultimately failed rescue mission after the Russian submarine went 
down in the Barents Sea, killing all 118 crew members. Today's Dateline 
explores the human tragedy surrounding the submarine crew trapped 
beneath the sea. Here is Judith Latham. The mission to recover the 
remains of crewmen who died aboard the sunken nuclear submarine Kursk 
has uncovered a log book and two notes written by Russian submariners; 
notes that have helped provide public criticism over the military's 
slow response to the August 12th disaster. VOA correspondent Eve Connett 
in St. Petersburg spoke with parents of the victims and with other 
Russians about these notes and about how the revelations have affected 
their views of the Kremlin and its pledge to carry out an honest investigation 
into the national tragedy. In their small apartment in St. Petersberg, 
Roman and Erena Kalashnikov pour over photographs of their 27-year-old 
son Dimitre, one of the 12 sailors whose bodies were recovered from 
the Kursk submarine before the salvage operation was called off. Roman, 
who also served in the country's navy, pulls out a piece of paper 
on which he copied the last words his son wrote before his death. 
It is too dark to write it now, but I will try to do it blindly. It 
looks like there is no chance 10-20%. Here is a list of personnel 
who are in the 9th section and trying to get out. Hello to everyone. 
Don't despair. His son's note disproved the Russian government's claim 
that all sailors died immediately in the Kursk tragedy. The idea that 
the crewmen could not have been saved deflected criticism from the 
Kremlin that it had acted too slowly and ineffectively to save the 
118 men from being buried alive on the bottom of the Barents Sea. 
But Roman Kalashnikov says that although his son's note proves the 
officials were wrong, he has become a firm supporter of President 
Vladimir Putin, the man he believes is spearheading an honest and 
open investigation into the Kursk tragedy. In Russia everything depends 
on what a President says. And I can say that the promises he made 
are being fulfilled flawlessly from a legal point of view. I think 
this investigation will be brought to fruition. The highly publicized 
expensive salvage mission, as well as the generous State support for 
the families of the Kursk victims, is unprecedented. Beres Kuluada, 
survivor of the Soviet Kumsomolitz nuclear submarine which sank in 
1989, says the government's response then was fundamentally different 
from what Russians are witnessing now. He says there was no help for 
the relatives like we are seeing now. Those of us who lived through 
the sinking of the Kumsomolitz were told, "You should be thankful 
that you survived. You cannot ask for anything more". Dimitre Kalashnikov's 
mother Erena sees the release of her son's note and the government's 
apparent concern for her family as an effort to do right, to make 
up for callous behavior in the past. even bury people in secret. The 
widows never knew what happened or how. Ten years later they might 
receive some certificate, but in the case of the Kursk everything 
has been done with great openness. But others are not so sure openness 
is the right way to describe the government's reaction and say it 
is too early to herald in a new era of official honesty. Alexander 
Golds, Military Analyst for Etogee, a weekly news magazine, believes 
Dimitre Kalashnikov's note which contradicted statements of both the 
Northern Fleet and the Kremlin was only released because there was 
no way to stop its publication. There are few theories, unfortunately 
we can only speculate. It looks like that it happened because of a 
few circumstances. First the weather was so bad that they cannot immediately 
take what is from Norwegian ship Regalla through the coast to save 
her at risk. That's why they had to make first examination of the 
boarders on board of Regalla. Second, there were two people on Regalla, 
the man from general military prosecutor office and medical expert, 
both of them have not to report directly to fleet command. If they 
tried to hide this note it can came to the surface immediately only 
because it had happened on a foreign ship and there can be theoretically 
some witnesses. But now there is more that just Dimitre Kalashnikov 
note. Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Eliac Ivanov, in charge of the 
commission investigating the cause of the sinking of the Kursk, says 
a second note was recovered from a dead crewman, which reads, "We 
are getting weaker from the effects of carbon monoxide following the 
fire. Pressure is rising. If we get out we won't stand the compression". 
The sailor who wrote the note said he doubted the men would survive 
for more than 24 hours, information which supports the government 
in the sense that it proves rescue team would not have had enough 
time to save any of the 23 sailors slowly suffocating in the Kursk's 
9th compartment. In whatever way information will be revealed the 
fact that at least some of the men survived for at least a few hours 
brought the tragedy back into peoples' hearts once again. While it 
was not the first time Russian sailors died at sea, it was the first 
time that such a disaster was so publicized and the government's response 
so critically monitored both worldwide and at home. VOA's Eve Connett 
reporting from St. Petersburg. Naval Analyst Norman Palmer is the 
author of more than 30 books, many of them on submarine warfare. Mr. 
Palmer says the Kursk was actually equipped with one of the most modern 
escape systems in the world, including a capsule that was capable 
of carrying the entire crew to the surface. But it was damaged or 
perhaps destroyed in the explosion. But beyond that the surviving 
crewmen in the rear end of the submarine should have been able to 
use their own individual escape devices to reach the surface. Separate 
from that, there are several methods of people on the outside world 
coming to the submarine and rescuing any survivors out of the submarine. 
But that requires a escape hatch or escape compartment in the submarine 
that is still useful and if the explosion may have severely damaged 
that capability also. But also you have to have the rescue equipment 
from a surface ship in the area rapidly within a day, two or at most 
three days. We don't know the full details of the Russian response, 
at least we don't in the West at this time. When you deal with the 
Russians and their Soviet progenitors, of course you are also dealing 
with the massive security issue where they would not want outside 
help because of features both outside and inside of the submarine 
they would not want foreign intelligence to have access to. Because 
the damage to the Kursk was far more serious than any one realized 
at the time, Mr. Palmer says, neither the crew's own escape capability 
nor the Russian navy's rescue capability was able to deal with the 
problem and ultimately the failed rescue turned into a public relations 
disaster. The recovery of letters written by the trapped Russian submariners 
has made the situation even more poignant. But remember in the old 
days, the Soviet regime would never have released those letters. Right. 
The letters would never been seen by the press or the families and 
I think you have a situation where post Cold War Russian public relations 
has not caught up with the real world. Naval Analyst Norman Palmer, 
author of many books on submarine warfare. 'The crew trapped beneath 
the sea' was the subject of today's Dateline. I'm Judith Latham.