Standing only a few feet from each other at a Little Saigon mall, 
John Lee and Doreen Ng were worlds apart when it came to their thoughts 
on President Clinton's visit to Vietnam. The 23-year-old Ng has hopes 
of improved economic relations between the United States and Vietnam: 
``It's about money. The economy is good and younger people go back 
there all the time to look for opportunities.'' But for the 38-year-old 
Lee, there is lingering suspicion about any dealings with the communist 
government his family fled in 1979. ``How can he go there?'' said 
Lee, whose father was placed in a ``re-education camp'' in Vietnam. 
``Of course, I think we should help the people. They are so poor. 
But not this way. Not with this visit.'' It is a divide that runs 
deep in Orange County's Little Saigon, home to 300,000 Vietnamese, 
the largest such community outside of Vietnam. It is a divide that 
was made all the more stark Thursday as Clinton became the first American 
president to visit Vietnam in the 25 years since the war ended with 
a communist takeover of South Vietnam. Clinton has said he hopes his 
meetings with top leaders will improve relations. He has already lifted 
a trade embargo and restored diplomatic relations. The two nations 
signed a sweeping trade agreement in July. Political passions run 
so high in Little Vietnam that anyone who says something favorable 
about Vietnam risks being branded a communist. Last year, protesters 
angrily denounced a Little Saigon store owner who hung a poster of 
North Vietnamese leader Ho Chi Minh in his window. In Little Saigon, 
news reports about Clinton's trip rank above the question of who will 
become the next president. Radio debates rage on the community's two 
leading stations, with some saying the trip is good for the economic 
future of the two countries and others calling it a communist conspiracy. 
The debate has spilled from the airwaves into Little Saigon's restaurants 
and other businesses. ``If you think the United States should normalize 
relations with Vietnam, then they call you a communist. If you think 
they shouldn't, they accuse you of not caring about human rights,'' 
said Westminster Councilman Tony Lam, 64, the first Vietnamese-American 
elected to public office in the United States. Lam, who owns the Viet 
Dong restaurant, advocates normalizing relations with Vietnam. ``We 
should turn the page of history and move away from the dark era,'' 
he said. ``I'm not forgetting the sacrifice of the U.S. soldiers and 
the Vietnamese people. I just feel we should not put hatred and suspicion 
in front of our eyes.'' An Ngoc, a 56-year-old customer dining at 
the restaurant, was quick to respond. ``I, too, want to help the people 
of Vietnam, but not at the price of helping the government,'' he said. 
``They won't help the people. They will help themselves.'' Down the 
street at the Asian Garden Mall, where Lee and Ng offered their views, 
Cathy Tran said the real question is whether the trip will result 
in any benefit for the two countries. ``People talk, talk, talk,'' 
said Tran, owner of a music store at the mall. ``The people who make 
the decision haven't talked yet.''