while the presidential election makes history in this country, the 
president is making history overseas in vietnam. president clinton 
has become the first president since nixon to visit there. astounding 
considering he was an anti-war protester in the old days. he's now 
the first president ever to visit hanoi. jim maceda is traveling with 
the president and joins us from hanoi tonight. good evening to you. 
brian. as you can see it's already a bright and busy friday morning 
here in downtown hanoi. the president arrived on this historic trip 
late last night from brunei. and would believe he's already been upstaged 
by none other than his wife, hillary. the first u.s. to visit vietnam 
since the war and the first ever to land in the capital hanoi. accompanied 
by daughter chelsea, the greeting was proper if low cree key. no cheering 
crowds. the president headed straight for his hoteole hotel and a 
night's rest. on the route, many curious vietnamese caught a glimpse 
of the morked. but it was a much more emotional scene earlier in the 
day when first lady and senator-elect hillary clinton went shopping 
in downtown hanoi. she was met by a throng of vietnamese. the historic 
three-day visit is seen by both sides as a way of healing old wounds. 
clinton will address university students in a speech to be broadcast 
live on vietnamese tv. it will ease the pain caused by america during 
the war and also he us find a partner with whom we can do business. 
high on clinton's agenda, bringing together vietnamese and the scores 
of u.s. business leaders accompanying him, trying to build on the 
success of a free trade agreement signed last july but still not vat 
fied. he'll lead two business forums in ho chi minh city. formerly 
saigon, in the more entrepreneurial south the and some 1,500 u.s. 
servicemen are still missing and a full accounting is needed, says 
clinton, to fornl a new u.s.-vietnamese relationship. but despite 
the historic nature of this trip, compounded by the fact that as a 
young man, of course president clinton was against the war in vietnam, 
still for those of us here covering this one has the impression it 
is totally overshadowed by the other war, the war of baments going 
on back home. jim, we can confirm that back here. thank you very much.