President Clinton stood Friday beneath a huge bust of the legendary 
Ho Chi Minh, architect of the communist victory over U.S.-backed forces 
25 years ago, and said that he was ``looking forward to building toward 
the future'' with Vietnam, America's one-time enemy. In a red-carpet 
ceremony, Clinton became the first U.S. president to visit Hanoi, 
the capital once bombed by American warplanes. He was welcomed by 
a military band and honor guard in the courtyard of the French-built 
presidential palace on Ba Dinh Square near the mausoleum honoring 
the late leader reverently known as Uncle Ho. ``I'm glad to be here,'' 
said Clinton, who led anti-war protests as a young man and resisted 
the draft. ``I'm looking forward to building toward the future. It 
was very moving this morning, this welcoming ceremony.'' The president 
posed for pictures with Vietnamese President Tran Duc Luong in a palace 
meeting room, sitting under a larger-than-life stone bust of Ho. The 
president's wife, Hillary, and daughter, Chelsea, joined him. Crowds 
of curious onlookers, some of them waving, stood three and four deep 
on the streets as Clinton's motorcade rode to the palace. A military 
band played the national anthems of the United States and Vietnam 
as Clinton and Luong stood under a canopied platform in the warm morning 
sun. ``I know that you have come a long way to Vietnam,'' Luong told 
his American guest. ``I hope that you are not very tired after the 
long trip and I hope the weather is suitable to you. I wish you all 
the best during this trip. I hope this trip will be very interesting 
for both countries.'' Clinton thanked him and said, ``I've been very 
moved by the friendliness of the people on the streets. It is a very 
good omen.'' Luong also congratulated Mrs. Clinton on her election 
to the Senate. ``We are all very happy,'' he said. Vietnamese officials 
told Clinton they were prepared to sign an international labor convention 
aimed at banning the worst forms of child labor abuse, White House 
spokesman Jake Siewert said. Clinton and Luong also were witnessing 
the signing of a scientific and technology pact covering issues such 
as flood-control management, marine research control and disease prevention. 
Another agreement dealt with labor issues such as skills training, 
worker safety and working with the disabled. On a visit stirring painful 
memories back home of America's long and most unpopular war, Clinton 
promised ``to build a different future'' with its former enemy. After 
meeting with Luong, Clinton toured the Temple of Literature, a 1,000-year-old 
memorial to what was once an institution of higher learning. He walked 
out of the walled compound and began shaking hands, campaign style, 
with a crowd lined 10-people deep along a side street. He shopped 
in a crafts store and, before getting into his limousine to leave, 
marveled to a Secret Service agent: ``Look at the children.'' The 
Vietnamese government seemed accepting of Clinton's embrace. ``The 
Vietnamese people have built and developed relations with the U.S. 
that look forward to the future, not to repeat the painful pages of 
the war,'' said an editorial in Friday's state-run People's Army newspaper. 
Clinton arrived in the communist capital late Thursday, the first 
U.S. president ever in Hanoi, a city once bombed by American warplanes. 
Thousands and thousands of Vietnamese were on the streets at midnight 
for a glimpse of Clinton's limousine and jammed the square in front 
of his hotel. ``This only happens once in a thousand years,'' said 
homemaker Tran Thi Lan, 50. Reaching out to a generation of students 
born after the war, Clinton planned to speak at Hanoi National University 
to describe his vision for a new chapter in U.S.-Vietnamese relations. 
State-run television, in an unprecedented move, was to broadcast the 
address live. More than 50 U.S. corporations sent executives to Vietnam 
during Clinton's visit in hopes of gaining a foothold in what they 
believe is a vast untapped market of 78 million people. As a young 
man, Clinton ``opposed and despised'' the Vietnam War, organized protest 
marches and avoided the military draft. As commander in chief three 
decades later, Clinton acknowledged that ``A lot of people still bear 
the wounds of war'' in both countries. The war cost 58,000 American 
lives and tore the nation with suffering and turmoil. The U.S. military 
buildup began in 1961, growing to 60,000 combat troops within four 
years and to 543,000 by 1969. U.S. forces in 1973 made a humiliating 
withdrawal that still haunts the Pentagon. North Vietnam's army captured 
Saigon in 1975, leading to the unification of the country under communist 
control. The losses to the Vietnamese people were staggering: 3 million 
dead and thousands missing. ``The best thing that we can do to honor 
the sacrifice and service of those who believed on both sides that 
what they were doing is right, is to find a way to build a different 
future, and that's what we're trying to do,'' Clinton said in an interview 
with The Associated Press. In a cautious rapprochement, Clinton lifted 
a trade embargo against Vietnam in 1994 and the next year restored 
diplomatic relations. He opened the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi in 1996 
and in 1998 issued his first waiver of a law that bars trade relations 
with communist nations that deny citizens the right to emigrate. In 
July, the United States and Vietnam signed a sweeping trade agreement. 
``I think it's a new chapter,'' Clinton said. ``The thing that makes 
America work over time is our ability to visualize new futures and 
achieve them.'' Even as Washington and Hanoi look to the future, the 
United States still searches for missing servicemen and pursues rumors 
of Americans left behind when the last known POWs went home. Clinton 
said that ``so far all the rumors and all the leads have turned up 
dead ends.'' The United States lists 1,992 Americans unaccounted for 
from the war. The Pentagon has stopped pursuing 646 of the cases, 
and the rest remain open. Clinton on Saturday will go to a rice paddy 
outside Hanoi where experts are trying to recover remains at a site 
where it is believed Air Force Capt. Lawrence G. Evert, of Cody, Wyo., 
crashed in an F-105 jet on Nov. 8, 1967. Clinton is the third U.S. 
president to visit Vietnam. Lyndon B. Johnson went to Vietnam twice 
as president and Richard M. Nixon once, in 1969. --- On the Net: CIA 
World Factbook http://www.odci.gov/cia/publications/factbook/geos/vm.html