The two men who were carried out the suicide bombing of the USS Cole 
last month have been identified as veterans of the U.S.-backed guerrilla 
war to drive Soviet forces from Afghanistan, The Washington Post reported 
Friday. The newspaper quoted Yemen Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Iryani 
as saying in an interview that one of the men who steered the small 
boat of plastic explosives into the ship was a Yemeni born in the 
eastern province of Hadramaut. He would not discuss other details 
learned in the investigation of attack that killed 17 U.S. sailors 
Oct. 12 as the ship refueled in a port in Yemen. But he told the newspaper 
that authorities have solid leads to the identity of the second man, 
also thought to have been a native of Yemen. Al-Iryani said the identity 
of the first man was established by false identification discovered 
in one of the rented houses around Aden, where the attack was planned. 
The name on the ID forms, which included a boating license, was false, 
but the photo was genuine. The prime minister also told the Post that 
Yemeni investigators have learned a lot from relatives of the man. 
``The picture inside the country should be very clear very soon. The 
question is outside. Who was involved outside the country?'' he said. 
Investigators have focused on Muslim extremists angered by the U.S. 
military presence in the Arabian Peninsula, especially Saudi Arabia. 
U.S. investigators have said the attack bears the earmarks of followers 
of Osama bin Laden, the exiled Saudi millionaire and Afghanistan veteran 
who officials say ordered the 1998 bombing of U.S. embassies in Nairobi 
and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The prime minister said Yemeni investigators 
have not linked the Aden bombing to bin Laden, who has Yemeni citizenship 
by his father's birth in the Hadramaut region. But al-Iryani said 
a wider conspiracy seems obvious to Yemeni officials, who believe 
the Cole attack displayed technological savvy unknown in their country.