Black smoke billowed from a burning parliament Thursday and police 
fought demonstrators after mobs tried to storm the building to demand 
that Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic accept electoral defeat. 
Some demonstrators broke through a police cordon and managed to get 
inside the parliament building, and more than an hour after smoke 
was first sighted coming from parliament, small fires continued to 
burn within. Clashes spread through the streets of the capital, which 
echoed with the sound of stun grenades and tear gas fired to break 
up the crowds. Dozens of people were injured, according to witnesses. 
The melee erupted at the start of a huge rally the opposition called 
to force Milosevic to accept electoral defeat by Vojislav Kostunica 
in the Sept. 24 election. In what was apparently the largest anti-Milosevic 
protest since his 13-year rule began, hundreds of thousands of people 
had assembled in Belgrade, and tens of thousands more were seen streaming 
into the city. Opposition leaders attempted to rally the crowd, blasting 
rock music through the capital and calling for nonviolence. An opposition 
leader told the crowd that Kostunica would address the rally ``from 
inside'' parliament. The melee began when angry protesters charged 
the parliament building, pelting the doors with stones. Riot police 
responded with tear gas as the protesters broke through a police cordon 
and reached the parliament doors. ``At this moment, terror rules in 
Belgrade,'' the pro-Milosevic government television said in a commentary. 
``They are attacking everyone they see on the streets and there is 
chaos.'' A reporter at the scene saw at least five injured protesters 
lying on the steps of parliament. One policeman caught by the crowd 
was beaten. Several policemen deserted their cordon and joined the 
protesters, reporters at the scene said. Five police cars were set 
afire in the front of the parliament. Tensions were rising after the 
Yugoslav Constitutional Court issued a ruling that one justice reportedly 
said nullified the recent election. The opposition claimed the decision 
by the pro-Milosevic court was aimed at prolonging his stay in power. 
By early afternoon, downtown Belgrade was a mass of people, many streaming 
toward the parliament building and blocking traffic as they did so. 
People in the crowd waved flags, shouted and jostled each other in 
the streets. Many wore paper caps with the slogan, ``We'll Endure.'' 
They moved past shops, some shut down with signs stating, ``Closed 
because of Robbery'' _ an allusion to opposition claims that Milosevic 
stole the elections. Thousands more people joined smaller rallies 
in towns throughout the country. In the third largest city, Nis, about 
10,000 people tried to push their way into the local office of Milosevic's 
party but were persuaded by opposition leaders not to give police 
a reason to attack them. The government acknowledged that Kostunica 
outpolled Milosevic but says he fell short of a majority in the five-candidate 
race. A run-off had been set for Sunday. Late Wednesday, the constitutional 
court, in a brief dispatch by the state-run Tanjug news agency, said 
``part'' of the Sept. 24 election had been annulled. There was no 
comprehensive statement from the court. But one justice, Milutin Srdic, 
told Radio Free Europe that the entire election result had been thrown 
out and a new vote would be required. In the meantime, Srdic said 
Milosevic could remain in office through his term, which expires in 
July. The opposition said it had not been officially notified of the 
ruling. However, opposition legal expert Nebojsa Bakarec dismissed 
the decision as the latest ``in a series of unconstitutional moves'' 
by Milosevic ``to manipulate the electoral will of the people.'' The 
United States, Britain and other Western governments condemned the 
apparent move to extend Milosevic's tenure. ``The people of Yugoslavia 
have made their will known: Milosevic should not thwart them,'' Secretary 
of State Madeleine Albright said in Egypt. In what the opposition 
hoped was a further sign the regime was crumbling, more than 160 employees 
of Serbian state television _ a major pillar of Milosevic's power 
_ were fired Thursday after going on strike. Most were technicians 
and staff of nonpolitical programs. Most Milosevic loyalists remained, 
and kept the network on the air. Police had set up roadblocks outside 
Belgrade, but the convoys of protesters were so large that most of 
them were allowed to pass. A convoy of about 2,000 people was briefly 
blocked near the town of Smederevska Palanka, about 30 miles south 
of Belgrade, but it eventually pushed its way through barricades. 
Protesters used a front-end loader to shove aside two sand trucks 
used by authorities to try to block a 12-mile line of cars and buses 
with about 15,000 people traveling from the opposition stronghold 
of Cacak. Riot police stood by without intervening. At another roadblock, 
trucks were pushed away and demonstrators negotiated with a police 
commander to be allowed through. At yet another blockade, angry protesters 
overturned a police car and dumped it into a ditch. The mass march 
on Belgrade followed a day of dramatic developments at the strikebound 
Kolubara coal mine. Police there were forced to abandon plans to take 
over the compound after confronting fearless anti-Milosevic crowds. 
Such defiance in the face of police was unprecedented in Yugoslavia's 
55-year communist history.