An explosion in a possibly booby-trapped vehicle killed a British 
man and injured his wife in the Saudi capital on Friday afternoon. 
In a statement, Riyadh Police Chief Abdullah al-Shahrani said the 
couple were British and that their car, suspected to be booby-trapped, 
exploded while the husband was driving it at 1:23 p.m. The man died 
from his injuries and his wife, slightly injured, was treated and 
released from King Faisal Hospital, he said. In a statement from the 
British Embassy in Saudi Arabia, Consul Ian Wilson confirmed that 
the man had died. He said the couple were British civilians, but he 
declined to give their names or provide any other information about 
them. Britain's Press Association said both victims were in their 
40s and had lived for eight years in Saudi Arabia, where the husband 
worked for a private company. The police chief's statement came after 
conflicting accounts of what had happened. Saudi sources initially 
said two people, believed to be Americans, were killed when an explosive 
device was thrown into their vehicle. But at the U.S. Embassy, spokesman 
Rick Roberts said Saudi authorities told the embassy no Americans 
were involved. The explosion, in a central Riyadh commercial district 
of two- and three-story buildings, happened in front of a barbershop, 
just down the street from a supermarket and a pharmacy. Many such 
businesses are closed on Fridays, the Muslim holy day, and all would 
have been closed at the time of the blast, which occurred just after 
midday prayers. None of the stores' windows was broken _ an indication 
that the blast was not very powerful. A Pakistani construction worker, 
who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he saw an explosion go off 
in a four-wheel-drive vehicle. He said he saw two people who ``appeared 
to be Westerners'' and that one of them had been cut in half by the 
blast. Another witness, a cook who refused to give his name, said 
he saw a blond-haired man removed from a GMC vehicle whose leg was 
nearly severed and a woman who did not appear severely injured. Security 
officials initially closed off two main thoroughfares in the commercial 
district, where the blast took place. Within a few hours, the streets 
were cleared and rain rinsed away the blood. The blast comes a month 
after suspected suicide bombers blew a hole in the side of the USS 
Cole, killing 17 American sailors as the ship refueled in Aden, Yemen, 
another Persian Gulf country. U.S. investigators have said the Oct. 
12 attack on the Cole bears the earmarks of followers of Osama bin 
Laden, the exiled Saudi millionaire who officials say ordered the 
deadly 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. Bin 
Laden is hiding out in Afghanistan as the guest of its Islamic rulers, 
the Taliban. On June 25, 1996, a truck bomb exploded outside the Khobar 
Towers housing complex near Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, killing 19 U.S. 
Air Force personnel and injuring more than 500 Americans and Saudis. 
The previous year, on Nov. 13, a car bomb blew up at a U.S. military 
headquarters in Riyadh, killing five Americans.