presiden clinton was making history today, very far from the tumult 
in which his successor will be chosen. mr. clinton, as we've said 
before, is the first president to go to vietnam since the war ded. 
it is a hugely symbolic visit to a nation which humiliated this one. 
any american who has any association with vietnam could not but be 
moved in some way. abc's john cochran is with him. it was a moment 
americans who fought in vietnam could never have imagined. a band 
playing "the star spangled banner," and playing it well. it was a 
remarkable day for the vietnamese as well. imagine, an american president 
in hanoi. they came, even though the communist government did nothing 
to organize enthusiastic crowds, as it usually does with foreign dignitaries. 
they came, not because they were ordered to, but becausec they agreed 
with the president finally, america is coming to see vietnam as your 
people have asked for years, as a country, not a war. authorities 
were clearly ambivalent about his visit. when the president urged 
more progress on human rights, vietnamese officials changed the subject. 
still, for the first time, they permit aid foreign leader to address 
their nation on television. open your socty and strengthen the rule 
of law. many vietnamese who watched were disappointed, not by what 
he said, but by what he did not say. this man, a veteran, joined many 
others who said the president should have apologized for the war. 
american officials say an apology would have been an affront to the 
americans who died in vietnam d the veterans o survived. in fact, 
president clinton gave american veterans the credit for leading the 
way to normal relations. after the war, they were among the first 
americans to come here urging better relations. the turning point 
came when the vietnamese agreed to help recover the remains of hundreds 
of missing americans. today, the president said cooperation must work 
both ways, and gave the vietnamese american military records to help 
locate their missing. 300,000 vietnam a# abc % h@ abc wo unaccounted 
for. john cochran, abc news, hanoi.