and now a big story that continues to be overshadowed by the drama 
in florida -- president clinton's historic trip to vietnam and the 
ongoing reconciliation of two old enemies. as nbc's jim maceda reports 
from hanoi, the president has been getting a very warm welcome. today 
president clinton greeted as a friend in vietnam, an honor guard welcome 
from an army america once vowed, but failed, to destroy. clinton calling 
his visit a new chapter today, meeting with vietnam's president tran 
duc luong, who was a top engineer during the war, and other leaders 
of the former enemy state with his wife and senator-elect, hillary, 
and daughter, chelsea engulfed wherever they went. but today's centerpiece, 
a speech to hanoi university students, tomorrow's leaders for the 
first time, broadcast live by state television to the country's 80 
million people. because of the conflict -- clinton made no apologies 
for what is called, here, "the american war," nor did he mention his 
young anti-war days, but sought reconciliation. let us continue to 
help each other to heal the wounds of war. acknowledging the cost 
of the war to the vietnamese, 3 million died. the staggering sacrifice 
of the vietnamese people on both sides of that conflict. then, urging 
the vietnamese communist government politely to embrace a market economy, 
free speech and religious tolerance. reaction outside the television 
shops in downtown hanoi seemed positive. man, old enough to remember 
the war. "relations between us are finally improving." the warm reception 
extending through toasts and an evening at hanoi's opera house, there 
was substance today -- two important agreements on science and labor 
relations. but these, overshadowed by the powerful symbol of the trip 
itself. the histories of our two nations are deeply intertwined. tomorrow, 
a bitter reminder of that history when clinton visits an excavation 
site, where volunteers dig for the remains of 1 of nearly 1,500 u.s. 
servicemen still missing in jim maceda, nbc news, hanoi.