Meanwhile, the sitting President Bill Clinton continues his historic 
visit to Vietnam today, the first by a sitting President since the 
war. Although he stopped far short of apologizing for the Vietnam 
war, Mr. Clinton has promised a new era in relations between the old 
enemies. The World's Odolon Cussin reports on that story from Hanoi. 
After a long morning of meetings with Vietnam's President and visits 
to some of Hanoi's historic sites, Bill Clinton did what he seems 
to do best, he spoke to the people. In a rare gesture, President Clinton's 
address to students at Hanoi's National University was broadcast live 
to the whole country. I am honored to be the first American President 
to see Hanoi and to visit this University. I do so conscious that 
the histories of our two nations are deeply intertwined, in ways that 
are both a source of pain for generations that came before and a source 
of promise for generations yet to come. Though he mentioned the past 
and the scars caused by the war that ended 25 years ago, President 
Clinton mostly talked about the future. He repeated the now familiar 
call for globalization, developing the Internet and the promise of 
the so-called knowledge economy. Clinton's entourage includes several 
cabinet members, Senators and members of Congress. US trade representative 
Shirley Bershevsky today sang the praises of the US Vietnam bilateral 
trade deal, signed this summer and still awaiting approval by Congress. 
Massachusetts's Senator John Carey, a decorated Vietnam veteran, also 
accompanied the President. He said the cooperation of the Vietnamese 
government in recovering the remains of American soldiers still missing 
was a crucial factor in improving US Vietnam relations during the 
Clinton administration. It is a critical point, I mean it still remains 
a centerpiece of the cooperation that brings a stronger relationship. 
If we weren't able to cooperate on that, it will be a lot harder to 
cooperate on other things. Some American's accuse Clinton of working 
with a repressive government in Vietnam. National Security advisor 
Sandy Berger, who's travelling with the President, says the dialogue 
between Washington and Hanoi hasn't compromised American interests 
in any way. Today comminutes an effort that has been underway for 
eight years to rebuild our relationship with Vietnam, to normalize 
our relationship but to do so in a way that is true to our values 
and with total fidelity to those who served here and particularly 
the families of those people in Vietnam who are unaccounted for and 
missing. In today's televised speech, President Clinton indirectly 
criticized the Vietnamese government's restrictions on religion, the 
press and political dissent by holding up the United States as an 
example. In our experience, guaranteeing the right to religious worship 
and the right to political dissent does not threaten the stability 
of a society, instead it builds people's confidence in the fairness 
of our institutions. Emphatically denying that the United States was 
trying to impose its' vision of progress on Vietnam, President Clinton 
appealed to the generation of post war Vietnamese, who now make up 
more than half the country, to work toward a freer more open society. 
Only you can decide if you will continue to open your markets, open 
your society and strengthen the rule of law. Only you can decide how 
to weave individual liberties and human rights into the rich and strong 
fabric of Vietnamese national identity. Your future should be in your 
hands, the hands of the Vietnam's people. After the speech, thousands 
of people waited outside and lined the road leading from the University. 
This 22-year-old student said she didn't care what Mr. Clinton said 
about human rights, as long as increased US investment brought more 
jobs for people like her. I just care about the business and economy 
and I don't care about politics. I hope that President Clinton's visit 
to Vietnam will provide an opportunity for entrepreneurs in Vietnam 
to come to contact with American entrepreneurs and more jobs will 
be created. But whatever people in Vietnam think, critics back in 
the United States will have some more ammunition today, even though 
the State department shows the interpreter when his speech was broadcast 
on Vietnamese television, Clinton's rather mild mention of political 
dissent and religious freedoms was somehow lost in the translation. 
For The World this is Odolon Cussin in Hanoi. In the Vietnam war, 
approximately 58,000 Americans died, while 3 million Vietnamese perished. 
One of those statistics was a reporter for a Vietnamese newspaper, 
who died covering the conflict. Her daughter Huang Li has followed 
in her mother's footsteps and now works as a journalist at the BBC 
World Service in London. She's been measuring President Clinton's 
speeches about reconciliation against her own experience, as she reconciles 
her memories of the war with her life now working in the west. Li, 
thank you very much for joining us. Obviously your emotions are very 
complicated on a day like today. I wonder if you could sort them out 
a little bit for us? Yes, I mean I have felt so emotional these days 
and a bit complicated as you can see. On one hand you know I was excited 
about the visit of Mr. Clinton, the first US president to Vietnam 
since the war. But at the same time, his visit brings me back to the 
hardship that I used to have during the Vietnam war. I was in Hanoi 
during the heaviest air-strike by the Air Force of the United States. 
I was with my grandmom because my parents, they all were correspondents 
and I was too little to understand at that time about death and life. 
But, oh, I remember so vividly in my life that, you know, through 
the night we had to hide ourselves in a shelter, very tiny one, and 
through the night my grandmother, she was sitting outside of the shelter 
just because you know no more space for her. And I don't know all 
I remember, I was so worried about maybe my grandmom would die and 
that's why you know when Mr. Clinton visits the country, I have mixed 
emotions. But on the other hand you know, I am glad that now the relationship 
between two country is getting better and better. You became a journalist 
as your mother was. Is that partly why you chose the career that you 
did? I think I would like to follow my mother's and my father's footsteps, 
and that's why I have chosen to be a journalist. My dad wasn't happy 
at all, he thought that for a female being a journalist really, really 
difficult. I told him that why, you know I like that job. I wonder 
about another difference, I am thinking about the job that your mother 
might have been doing as a journalist in Vietnam, as a North Vietnamese 
journalist during the war. To some extent she must have been under 
certain pressures to report a story a certain way, certainly a way 
that the North Vietnamese government would approve. Here you are a 
journalist in a different generation and a different era. Do you see 
a big difference between the job that you are doing, and the job that 
maybe your mother did and died doing? Of course, you know I did see 
a big difference and that's when I have great empathy to my mom's 
job. I mean she was print journalist for the Northern government during 
the war and you know she left a diary, she wrote during her days of 
the war. She couldn't report what she saw because, you know, if propaganda, 
because you know if you report something like negative, maybe Vietnamese 
people can think that, oh we're losing the war and she could only 
report about heroes of the war. But during her real diary, I have 
seen many, many things that she was suffering, like you know even 
hunger and even the discussions between the soldiers and you know 
they kill each other by mistakes. If you were able to talk to her 
now and tell her what has happened since she died and what has happened 
as a result of the war in whose service, like 3 million Vietnamese, 
she died. What would you tell her? Actually I have never thought of 
this question, but if I would have had a chance to talk to her now 
I would say that, you know, now what she invested in her life and 
in her job, now you know it brings some positive result I think so 
for her own daughter and for the other people. You know I miss her 
very much and I wish she could be here with me working in a much, 
much freer environment. The war is still very alive for you as an 
emotional experience and has very vivid memories, and you are still 
a young person. Yet there are many people in Vietnam who are younger 
still, who weren't even born during what we call the Vietnam war and 
your countrymen call the American war. I wonder if you could speak 
a little bit about those people, for them who have had no direct experience, 
the majority in fact of the population of your country. Is the war 
the same ongoing issue? No, I don't think so. Actually for the young 
generation of Vietnam today you know, for them now it's only the future 
in front of them and they think 'Oh America is the land full of opportunities, 
of technology.' And they even don't want to talk about the war, so 
they have a completely different experience from what I am having. 
But however, I am very glad to see that, you know, people now they 
don't have to think of the war. And they, you know, when people ask 
them where do you want to go after your University, or where do you 
want to go to develop your career, I think one of the countries they 
would include in their answer is the United States. Huang Li is a 
producer with the BBC World Service and the daughter of one of the 
3 million Vietnamese who died during the Vietnam war. President Clinton's 
visit to Vietnam is also bringing up memories of the conflict on this 
side of the Pacific, especially among American prisoners of war, many 
of whom remember their years in the infamous Hwa Lo prison. American 
POW's nicknamed Hwa Lo the Hanoi Hilton, and its prisoners included 
Senator John McCain and current US ambassador to Vietnam, P. Peterson. 
They and dozen of others, remember all too well the 5 by 9 concrete 
cells, the sound of tapping on the walls at night, the leg irons. 
Others recall standing before firing squads that shot blanks and being 
forced to kneel on concrete floors for days. It was a very, very awful 
situation said Ambassador Peterson earlier this week, one full of 
bad memories for the prisoner survivors. At a dinner at Hanoi today, 
President Clinton told his hosts that the US and Vietnam had buried 
the bitterness and are building a new history. Part of that new history 
is a new Hanoi Hilton. Just down the block from the old Hwa Lo prison 
which has been turned into a museum stands the brand new 269 room 
62 million-dollar Hilton Hotel. Hilton International owns a 40% stake 
in the new venture, with a French Vietnamese company splitting the 
remaining 60%. Guests of the old Hanoi Hilton may note with some irony 
that the White House is using the new hotel as its media center, during 
President Clinton's visit.