A British engineer was killed and his wife was injured on Friday when 
their car blew up on a busy commercial street in the heart of the 
Saudi capital. The explosion, apparently caused by a bomb or other 
device inside the four-wheel-drive vehicle, shattered the tense calm 
that has prevailed in the Persian Gulf since a terrorist attack on 
a U.S. warship last month outside the port of Aden, in neighboring 
Yemen. A senior Saudi official, speaking on condition of anonymity, 
said the deadly blast would be investigated as a possible terrorist 
attack aimed at Westerners in the capital. The Saudi police indicated 
that they were already treating the incident as a criminal matter. 
In a statement to the official Saudi Press Agency, Riyadh's police 
chief, Abdullah al-Shahrani, said ``an explosive charge'' inside the 
British couple's car may have been responsible for the explosion that 
ripped through the driver's side at 1:23 p.m. The blast occurred during 
a heavy rainstorm, just off a main highway that runs east and west 
through the center of the capital and is lined with high-rise shopping 
centers and strip malls. It followed midday prayers, when shops are 
generally closed, on the last day of the Saudi weekend, and did not 
cause any apparent damage to nearby buildings. Europeans, Americans 
and many other non-Saudis are immediately identifiable here because 
they dress differently. Saudi men stand out because they wear long 
white robes and headdresses. Saudi women are required to cover themselves 
in public with billowing black cloaks and wear a veil that leaves 
only their eyes visible. Non-Muslim women, while they must wear long 
shapeless coats in public, are not obliged to wear veils. The British 
Foreign Office identified the couple in the car as Christopher Rodway, 
an engineer at a Riyadh hospital, and his wife, Jane, both in their 
40s. They had lived in Saudi Arabia for about eight years, and neither 
worked at the British Embassy, according to Ian Wilson, the British 
consul in Riyadh. He said Mrs. Rodway had been treated for her injuries 
in a Riyadh hospital and released. Her husband, who was driving, died 
of his injuries in the hospital about six hours after the blast. Anti-American 
sentiment has been growing in the region in tandem with the spiraling 
Palestinian-Israeli violence of the last seven weeks. As Palestinian 
casualties have mounted _ and dozens of those injured have been brought, 
with great fanfare, to countries like Saudi Arabia for treatment _ 
many Arabs have accused the United States of defending Israel. Britain 
has also been accused of being pro-Israel, but to a much lesser extent 
than the United States. Still, a bomb was thrown at the British Embassy 
in Sana, the Yemeni capital, last month, two weeks after a terrorist 
bomb ripped through the hull of the destroyer Cole as it was refueling 
in Aden. Seventeen U.S. sailors were killed in the Aden harbor attack. 
U.S. and Yemeni investigators have said they suspect that those responsible 
were Islamic militants opposed to the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi 
Arabia and other Persian Gulf states. Since the Aden bombing, U.S. 
forces in the area have been on heightened security alert. The car 
explosion occurred just a few hours before Crown Prince Abdullah formally 
opened an international meeting here of ministers and oil industry 
officials from more than 40 oil-producing and oil-consuming countries. 
Among those attending the energy forum, which is taking place in a 
luxury hotel about two miles from the scene of the blast, was Energy 
Secretary Bill Richardson, who arrived in the capital after the incident. 
Another U.S. official, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, is expected 
to visit Saudi Arabia sometime in the next few days as part of a tour 
of the Persian Gulf. The timing of Cohen's arrivals in various gulf 
countries is being kept secret, according to the Pentagon. Saudi Arabia, 
the world's biggest oil exporter, has long been a close ally of the 
United States, which used it as the staging ground for the allied 
offensive against Iraq in 1991. Although public protests are not permitted 
in the insular kingdom, hostility to the continuing U.S. military 
presence here has occasionally burst into the open. In 1995, a car 
bomb outside the U.S. military headquarters in Riyadh killed five 
Americans. A year later, in the eastern city of Dhahran, 19 U.S. servicemen 
were killed when a truck bomb exploded outside a military housing 
complex.