With their dispute over investigative procedures receding, Yemenis 
and the FBI have made so much progress probing the attack on the USS 
Cole that the bureau is bringing home more agents and its on-scene 
commander, a senior FBI official said Friday. The announcement by 
Assistant FBI Director Dale Watson, head of the bureau's counterterrorism 
division, did not detail that progress. However, Yemeni Prime Minister 
Abdul-Karim al-Iryani said in an interview that the two men who carried 
out the suicide bombing last month have been identified as Yemeni 
veterans of the U.S.-backed guerrilla war to drive Soviet forces from 
Afghanistan. Al-Iryani also told The Washington Post that one of the 
men who steered the small boat carrying plastic explosives into the 
U.S. ship was a Yemeni born in the eastern province of Hadramaut. 
Although U.S. officials declined to comment on the Yemeni official's 
remarks, Watson said, ``Investigation by Yemeni authorities and sustained 
cooperation with U.S. efforts continue to result in more than satisfactory 
progress.'' ``The pace of progress has enabled the FBI to further 
reduce in-country presence, having completed many aspects of the investigation,'' 
Watson added in a statement released here. ``Because of the investigative 
achievements to date, the FBI will soon be able to bring home the 
FBI's senior onsite commander, John O'Neill.'' O'Neill is chief of 
the national security division of the FBI's New York office, which 
is in charge of the Cole investigation. The FBI presence in Yemen, 
which once involved more than 150 agents and evidence technicians, 
had dropped by late October to fewer than 40. The previous withdrawals 
came after most of the physical evidence was retrieved from the ship 
and from several houses in the port of Aden where the attackers apparently 
prepared their boat. FBI officials said some agents would remain in 
Yemen after O'Neill returns but they would not predict how many. U.S. 
officials said Friday they are near signing an agreement with the 
Yemenis on a resolution of the dispute between the FBI and Yemeni 
investigators over whether U.S. agents could interview witnesses and 
suspects in custody there. A formal written agreement has not yet 
been signed, but it appeared FBI agents would be able to observe interviews 
and submit questions, while not participating directly in questioning, 
they said. That resolution would preserve Yemeni sovereignty while 
letting the FBI gather evidence that could be admitted to U.S. courts. 
If FBI agents observe the questioning, they would be able to testify 
in any U.S. court that torture was not employed to obtain statements 
from defendants and witnesses. The FBI's goal throughout has been 
to charge the culprits in U.S. courts. The Yemeni prime minister would 
not discuss other details learned in the investigation of the Oct. 
12 attack that killed 17 U.S. sailors as the ship refueled in Aden. 
But he told the Post that authorities have solid leads to the identity 
of the second man, also thought to have been a native of Yemen. Al-Iryani 
said the identity of the first man was established by false identification 
discovered in one of the rented houses around Aden, where the attack 
was planned. The name on the ID forms, which included a boating license, 
was false, but the photo was genuine. The prime minister also told 
the Post that Yemeni investigators have learned a lot from the man's 
relatives. ``The picture inside the country should be very clear very 
soon. The question is outside. Who was involved outside the country?'' 
he said. Investigators have focused on Muslim extremists angered by 
the U.S. military presence in the Arabian Peninsula, especially Saudi 
Arabia. U.S. investigators have said the attack bears the earmarks 
of followers of Osama bin Laden, the exiled Saudi millionaire and 
Afghanistan veteran who officials say ordered the 1998 bombing of 
U.S. embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The 
prime minister said Yemeni investigators have not linked the Aden 
bombing to bin Laden, who has Yemeni citizenship by his father's birth 
in the Hadramaut region. But al-Iryani said a wider conspiracy seems 
obvious to Yemeni officials, who believe the Cole attack displayed 
technical savvy unknown in their country.