A British hospital worker died Friday when an explosion tore through 
his car while he was driving with his wife through the rainy, quiet 
streets of the Saudi capital. The blast killed Christopher Rodway, 
the British Foreign Office said. His wife, Jane Rodway, was slightly 
injured and released from the hospital hours after the explosion. 
Britain's Press Association said both victims were in their 40s and 
had lived in Saudi Arabia for eight years. The couple's car may have 
been booby-trapped, according to a statement from Riyadh Police Chief 
Abdullah al-Shahrani. Earlier Saudi sources had said an explosive 
device was thrown into the vehicle from the outside. Traffic was fairly 
light in the central Riyadh commercial district when the explosion 
blew through the couple's four-wheel-drive vehicle at 1:23 p.m. The 
blast was not powerful enough to break the windows of the adjacent 
Five Star Barber Shop or any nearby shops. Most businesses in the 
area, including a supermarket and pharmacy down the street, were closed 
for the Muslim holy day. The victims were rushed to the hospital, 
and police cordoned off the thoroughfare. Within hours, the Rodways' 
vehicle and other evidence of the explosion had been removed, and 
the remaining blood on the street had been washed away by the rain. 
Traffic soon resumed as normal. One witness said the man's leg was 
nearly severed when rescue workers removed him from the vehicle. The 
explosion came just hours before the start of an international energy 
conference meant to discuss ways of ensuring stability in world oil 
markets. Officials from oil-producing countries, the European Union, 
the World Bank and other international organizations are in Riyadh 
for the three-day meeting. U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia and other parts 
of the Gulf have been on the highest alert level since an Oct. 12 
attack on the USS Cole killed 17 American sailors in the port of Aden, 
Yemen. Such an alert level is only issued when an attack occurs in 
the region or when there is specific information indicating that one 
may occur. American residents in Saudi Arabia had been reminded of 
the alert, with the U.S. Embassy describing it as a ``precautionary 
measure.'' U.S. investigators have said the attack on the Cole bears 
the earmarks of followers of Osama bin Laden, the exiled Saudi millionaire 
who officials say ordered the deadly 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies 
in Kenya and Tanzania. Bin Laden is hiding in Afghanistan as the guest 
of its Islamic rulers, the Taliban.