The last transmission anyone heard from Lt. Col. Lawrence G. Evert's 
F-105D Thunderbird was only three words long: ``I'm hit hard.'' Moments 
later, an American flier on a bombing run over this small village 
saw what he thought was the explosion of an aircraft hitting the rice 
paddies. That was 33 years and 10 days ago. It took until this year 
for U.S. investigators to narrow the search for Evert's plane to a 
site just outside this impoverished village 17 miles northwest of 
Hanoi, the capital, and to win approval to dig it up. And then, in 
the weeks just before President Clinton's arrival here on Thursday, 
the soft, acidic earth of Tien Chau began giving up bits of wiring, 
bolts and plastic, clearly from an aircraft, and finally what forensic 
experts believe are small amounts of human remains. They have not 
yet been identified. Nonetheless, in one of the most emotional moments 
of his presidency, Clinton drove on Saturday into the Vietnamese countryside, 
past water buffalo and a Japanese motorcycle factory and farmers tending 
their flooded fields, to find the site. He hiked along a bamboo boardwalk 
to the place where some older villagers still remember seeing a plume 
of smoke after an American fighter was shot down by anti-aircraft 
fire. And he brought with him the downed pilot's two sons, who spent 
Friday sifting the mud through fine mesh, searching for the father 
they last saw when he flew out of Phoenix on a hot summer day in 1967. 
``When we were 6 and 8 years old,'' David Evert said Saturday, choking 
back tears as he gestured toward his older brother, Dan, ``we'd talk 
about how we would come to Vietnam and rescue him. We kind of feel 
that we're doing that now.'' Clinton's trip across the pocked dirt 
roads of this poverty-stricken section of Vietnam was intended as 
a vivid demonstration of how a new era has arrived, one in which Americans 
and Vietnamese work together, six days a week, finishing the muddy 
and emotionally draining business of accounting for 1,498 Americans 
still listed as missing in action here. Standing in mud-covered work 
shoes, Clinton on Saturday called the joint search for remains a coming 
together of former enemies that was ``unprecedented in human history.'' 
But like most of Clinton's trip here, the somber trek into the paddies 
was a reminder that piecing together the United States' relations 
with Vietnam is as slow and agonizing a process as looking for the 
remnants of Lawrence Evert's fighter. ``Look, neither side is ever 
going to fully get past it,'' said Pete Peterson, the former prisoner 
of war who now serves as U.S. ambassador here. ``Reminders of the 
war are everywhere. You drive by them every day. But we can't change 
the past and we can change the future, and bringing the president 
here to talk about what we can do together _ I think that opens a 
lot of minds here.'' It is far too early to tell what will come of 
Clinton's three-day journey to Vietnam. At almost midnight Saturday, 
he flew into the city once known as Saigon, the U.S. headquarters 
for prosecuting a failed war that Clinton himself opposed as a young 
man. Despite the late hour, thousands of people lined his route for 
the 15-minute drive from the airport, with many waving as he sped 
by. For all the enthusiasm that his arrival has generated among young 
people _ 60 percent of Vietnamese were born after 1970 _ the Communist 
government in Hanoi remains deeply suspicious of U.S. intentions. 
Engagement sounds fine, they all say, as long as it does not loosen 
the party's control of the country, or cause the kind of economic 
upheavals that have leveled so many authoritarian regimes. Indeed, 
Vietnam's Communist Party chief, Le Kha Phieu, spoke the language 
of ``old socialism'' in a meeting with Clinton on Saturday evening, 
and did not respond when the president suggested that the country 
would benefit from more political freedoms, a senior U.S. official 
said. ``It was the more traditional side of Vietnamese politics,'' 
the official said. ``He did talk about openness. He did talk about 
private entrepreneurship, but more clearly in the context of what 
you would have heard here 10 years ago or 15 years ago.'' After Clinton 
completed his official meetings here Saturday, one senior administration 
official said, ``They know they won the war, but they are wondering 
what went wrong with the peace.'' One kind of engagement seems fine 
to the Hanoi authorities: the kind that is happening out here in the 
rice paddies of Tien Chau. It is, without question, a remarkable sight, 
one also on view at five other places around the country where the 
Vietnamese are digging for the remains of missing Americans. Scores 
of villagers have signed up for jobs slicing away at the mud beneath 
the recently drained paddy, using a jerry-rigged device called a cheese 
cutter. They have a lot of cutting ahead of them: Evert's plane is 
believed to have tunneled a hole at least 16 feet deep. With hardly 
a word passing among them, the workers put mud in buckets and pass 
it along by hand to a wooden platform where dozens of young Vietnamese 
women in purple raincoats sift through it, looking for anything that 
resembles bones or manufactured parts. Hundreds have been found, but 
few are larger than the size of a thumb. From the site, where they 
are ankle-deep in muddy water, the workers can just make out a long 
metal railroad bridge that U.S. forces were trying to destroy that 
night. Evert's plane was the fourth and last in a formation, and no 
one knows if he dropped his ordnance. But they know he never pulled 
up to head south, and no one saw him eject or noticed a parachute 
open. A crew member on a nearby plane reported that the aircraft had 
been hit on the left rear fuselage by intense anti-aircraft fire, 
an image that seemed hard to imagine on Saturday on the peaceful paddies, 
where children were laughing and playing on the narrow dirt road and 
watching the man from America who arrived with roughly 40 cars, vans 
and buses. Just five days after the crash, Evert's fourth child, a 
daughter named Elizabeth, was born. His widow, Wanda, raised the four 
children alone. While nothing conclusive has been found, investigators 
seem quite certain that what they have tripped upon are the fractured 
remains of the F-105D. ``This is a chance for them to take their family 
home,'' Clinton said Saturday, after touring the site with his daughter, 
Chelsea, and his wife, Senator-elect Hillary Rodham Clinton, who said 
nothing in public. David Evert said Saturday that he had been surprised 
at the greeting he received from the local townspeople who came out 
to the site. They asked him about his other relatives, and wanted 
to know details of his father. ``They wanted to know how old we were 
when our father crashed,'' said Evert, now 39. ``It's amazing how 
hard they work, and how dedicated they are.'' It will be months, maybe 
years, before the Evert family knows for sure what has been dug up. 
DNA testing will have to be conducted on the tiny amount of remains, 
which will be sent to Hawaii. Plane parts will be studied for evidence 
that the aircraft is the one everyone thinks it is. ``We can wait,'' 
said David Evert, a television cameraman. ``We've waited 33 years 
not knowing much. What's a few more months?''