Mobs seeking to topple Slobodan Milosevic turned their fury on his 
centers of power Thursday, leaving parliament and other key Belgrade 
sites in shambles and flames and pushing the Yugoslav president to 
an inevitable choice: fight back or bow down. Hundreds of thousands 
of people swarmed the capital to demand that Milosevic accept his 
apparent electoral defeat by Vojislav Kostunica in the Sept. 24 election. 
As demonstrators charged and riot police cowered behind helmets and 
shields, the federal parliament building, the state broadcasting center 
and police stations fell in quick succession. Demonstrators tossed 
documents and portraits of Milosevic through the broken windows of 
the parliament complex. Smoke billowed from the building and from 
the state television headquarters nearby. Dozens of people were injured, 
according to witnesses. ``What we are doing today is making history,'' 
Kostunica proclaimed during an evening speech in front of Belgrade 
city hall, across from parliament. ``We call on the military and police 
to do everything to ensure a peaceful transition of power.'' The crowd 
chanted for Milosevic's arrest. Kostunica answered: ``He doesn't need 
to be arrested. He arrested himself a long time ago.'' At the White 
House, President Clinton said: ``The people are trying to get their 
country back.'' British Prime Minister Tony Blair said of Milosevic: 
``Your time is up. Go now.'' Clashes spread through the capital, which 
echoed with the sound of stun grenades and tear gas fired to break 
up the crowds. Later, both state television channels went off the 
air, leaving TV screens black. The uprising swelled as security forces 
showed little willingness to battle the largest anti-Milosevic protest 
in his 13-year rule. Many police joined the flag-waving crowds as 
they surged across central Belgrade. Thousands more people joined 
smaller rallies in towns throughout the country. There was no immediate 
reaction from Milosevic, and his whereabouts were not known. A statement 
from his Socialist Party of Serbia said it would ``fight against violence 
and destruction'' with ``all its force and in all state institutions,'' 
the state-run Tanjug news agency reported. There were fears the mayhem 
could allow Milosevic to declare a state of emergency and come down 
hard on his foes. But his security forces appeared to be disintegrating, 
with protesters seizing police precincts without a fight. The level 
of defiance was unprecedented in Yugoslavia's 55-year communist history. 
Some policemen discarded their uniforms and fled. Others embraced 
demonstrators. ``They're giving up,'' said a demonstrator who identified 
himself only as Sasha. The government acknowledges that Kostunica 
outpolled Milosevic in the Sept. 24 election but says he fell short 
of a majority in the five-candidate race. A runoff had been set for 
Sunday. The president has already countered in the courts in an apparent 
bid to cling to power: The Milosevic-controlled Yugoslav Constitutional 
Court issued a decision Wednesday that one justice said nullified 
the election. The justice, Milutin Srdic, told Radio Free Europe that 
Milosevic could remain in office until his term expires in July. The 
ruling outraged opposition supporters. Hundreds of thousands streamed 
into Belgrade from around the country for the opposition rally, and 
Thursday's melees erupted as the rally was beginning. The quick outbreak 
of violence suggested that opposition leaders had little control over 
some factions that may be driven by frustration over Yugoslav's disastrous 
economy. One attempt to storm parliament was repulsed by tear gas, 
but following waves of protesters broke through. By late afternoon, 
opposition supporters who had been inside the parliament building 
were climbing through the windows and onto the complex's balconies, 
waving flags as the crowd roared below. Inside the building, chaos 
reigned. Gangs of young people, many of them intoxicated, roamed the 
building, smashing furniture and computers and looting what valuables 
they could carry. But police offered little resistance and the clashes 
ebbed. Afterward, as night fell, thousands of demonstrators roamed 
the streets in a relatively relaxed atmosphere. Some were drunk and 
brandishing handguns. Many protesters wore paper caps with the slogan, 
``We'll Endure.'' They moved past shops, some shut down with signs 
stating, ``Closed because of Robbery'' _ an allusion to opposition 
claims that Milosevic stole the elections. Several shop windows were 
shattered, and orange flames still billowed from one section of the 
parliament building. Big trucks with loudspeakers drove through Belgrade 
blasting folk and rock music. The downtown headquarters of the Yugoslav 
Left, the neo-communist party run by Milosevic's wife, was demolished, 
with the graffiti ``People's Revolution'' sprayed on inside walls. 
More than 100,000 people gathered in front of parliament before Kostunica's 
evening speech. Protesters _ from burly farmers to black-robed Serbian 
Orthodox priests _ waved Yugoslav flags outside the building, where 
Milosevic was sworn in to another term in 1997 and promised ``peace, 
progress and prosperity.'' The crowd chanted ``Kill him! Kill him!'' 
as opposition leaders claimed victory over Milosevic. ``At this moment, 
terror rules in Belgrade,'' the pro-Milosevic government television 
said in a commentary earlier in the day. ``They are attacking everyone 
they see on the streets and there is chaos.'' State television went 
off the air in the afternoon after a bulldozer, apparently commandeered 
by demonstrators, broke into the state TV building and demonstrators 
poured inside. Police fled out the back or surrendered and flames 
engulfed part of the building, which was hit during NATO airstrikes 
last year. Before Thursday's protest, police had set up roadblocks 
outside Belgrade, but the convoys of protesters were so large that 
most of them were allowed to pass. A convoy of about 2,000 people 
was briefly blocked about 30 miles south of Belgrade, but it eventually 
pushed its way through barricades. Protesters used a front-end loader 
to shove aside two sand trucks used by authorities to try to block 
a 12-mile-long line of cars and buses with about 15,000 people. Riot 
police stood by without intervening.