When President Clinton reached out to shake Hoan Quang Sy's hand, 
the 11-year-old boy responded with a traditional show of respect, 
extending both arms. But the left hand was missing, the result of 
a bomb from a war over long before his birth. Sy was among four young 
boys who met the president Saturday during an event highlighting efforts 
to clear an estimated 3 million land mines and 300,000 tons of unexploded 
ordnance scattered about Vietnam. The youths were maimed in the central 
province of Quang Tri, which straddled the Demilitarized Zone during 
the Vietnam War and was the site of fierce fighting. Clinton squeezed 
the boys' shoulders and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton put her 
arm around the short, slightly stocky Sy as the couple viewed an exhibition 
of art by children injured by unexploded ordnance. One had suffered 
severe burns to his face that led to extensive treatment, including 
eight months at Boston's Shriners Hospital; more reconstructive surgery 
is possible. A second lost his left hand and right eye. His twin brother 
still has fragments in his body from the same explosion. Noting that 
unexploded leftovers of war still wound or kill about 2,000 Vietnamese 
a year, Clinton called land mines ``the curse of innocent children 
all over the world.'' He said the United States will help remove them 
in Vietnam and war zones in Africa and the Balkans. ``You will have 
America's support until you have found every land mine and every piece 
of unexploded ordnance,'' the president told a group that included 
five members of Congress. ``This is the tragedy of war for which peace 
produces no answer.'' Yet neither nation has signed the 139-country 
treaty outlawing land mines; the United States stockpiles an estimated 
11 million of them and Vietnam is still listed as a producer. Washington 
says mines remain a necessary deterrent protecting South Korea from 
the North. Sy's father and uncle were collecting scrap metal five 
years ago when they found a bomb, according to Kristen Leadem of PeaceTrees 
Vietnam, a group helping to remove mines. When they used a hammer 
to try to extract the explosive, the bomb went off, seriously injuring 
Sy and killing his father on the spot. His mother was left with six 
children to raise. The Clintons saw an outdoor exhibit that included 
a variety of artificial limbs and wheelchairs, along with a large, 
rusting bomb and dug-up mines, mortars and grenades. The United States 
has provided more than $3 million since July to buy mine-removing 
equipment and survey the countryside. Clinton said Washington had 
spent $350 million in the past eight years for such efforts around 
the world. ``I think we should do more,'' he said. Vietnam said in 
a detailed report a year ago that 38,248 people had died from unexploded 
ordnance since the war between the communist North and U.S.-backed 
South ended April 30, 1975. Most deaths were attributed to that war; 
others occurred in the far north, site of a brief but bloody border 
war with China in 1979. Some 3 million unexploded devices were cleared 
in a 1975-77 campaign while another, from 1991 to 1998 in the North, 
found 2.3 million _ and left 37 soldiers dead. Clearing infested land 
is especially important in a nation where three-quarters of the population 
lives in the countryside farming small plots. ___ On the Net: PeaceTrees 
Vietnam site: http://www.PeaceTreesVietnam.org/default.htm International 
Campaign to Ban Landmines: http://www.icbl.org Land mine treaty: http://www.un.org/Depts/dpko/mine/UNDocs/ban_trty.htm