Facing political turmoil at home, President Alberto Fujimori plans 
to remain in Tokyo until Wednesday to negotiate loans to ease Peru's 
financial problems, the government gazette said Saturday. The reason 
for Fujimori's prolonged stay in Japan, explained in a resolution 
signed by Prime Minister Federico Salas, did little to help dispel 
rumors that the embattled president was in Asia seeking political 
asylum. ``I have the impression that he's in the process of writing 
his resignation,'' opposition Congressman Luis Solari told radio station 
Radioprogramas. The resolution, published in the government newspaper, 
El Peruano, authorized Second Vice President Ricardo Marquez to remain 
in charge during Fujimori's absence. However, the announcement contradicted 
a statement issued hours earlier by Japan's Foreign Ministry that 
said a cold was keeping Fujimori in Tokyo a while longer. Hisashi 
Ueno, of Japan's Central and South American Affairs Bureau, said it 
was not immediately clear when Fujimori planned to return home. He 
would not elaborate on Fujimori's condition. When Fujimori first arrived 
Friday, Ueno said he was in Japan only to change planes. Fujimori, 
who first came to power in 1990, was born to Japanese immigrant parents 
who picked cotton in Peru until they could open a tailor's shop in 
downtown Lima. The 62-year-old president has maintained strong ties 
to his ancestral homeland. His son, Hiro, lives in Japan, as do his 
sister and brother-in-law, Victor Aritomi, Peru's ambassador to the 
country. Ueno said Saturday that Fujimori had not asked for asylum, 
echoing similar denials from the Malaysian government and Fujimori's 
top aides. ``It's incomprehensible, this provocative and irresponsible 
attitude of the president,'' opposition Congressman Fernando Olivera 
told The Associated Press. ``Why isn't Fujimori able to pick up a 
phone and inform the Peruvian people what he's up to?'' Olivera said 
he plans to introduce a resolution this week that would lift Fujimori's 
blanket permission to travel abroad. Under Peru's constitution, Fujimori 
needs congressional approval to leave the country. But in the last 
eight years, his ruling bloc has all but waived the restriction, passing 
resolutions every three to six months allowing him to come and go 
at will. Fujimori announced two months ago that he would end his presidency 
in July after his now-fugitive ex-spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, 
became the focus of a corruption scandal. But some of his top ministers 
have suggested that he might not last until the April special elections. 
The authoritarian leader _ whose victory to a third five-year term 
in May was marred by irregularities and fraud allegations _ has seen 
his autocratic rule of Peru slip away in recent weeks. Opposition 
lawmakers took control of Congress on Thursday, for the first time 
since 1992, with the election of Valentin Paniagua to the post of 
Congress president. That has opened the possibility that Congress 
could try to remove Fujimori on grounds of ``moral incapacity'' _ 
as permitted by the constitution. Economy Minister Carlos Bolona expressed 
confidence Friday that Congress not attempt to oust Fujimori _ a move 
he said would ``generate uncertainty and chaos.'' Bolona said Fujimori 
was in Japan to raise $300 million to $500 million in loans to cover 
an anticipated $1 billion hole in Peru's 2001 budget. Fujimori stopped 
in Tokyo on his way home from a midweek summit of Pacific Rim nations 
in Brunei. He was widely criticized at home for leaving Peru to attend 
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum summit. He canceled a 
planned trip to Panama this weekend for the Ibero-American summit 
of Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking leaders.