President Clinton honored the search for U.S. forces missing in Vietnam, 
lamenting ``the anguish of not knowing'' their fate, then flew to 
this bustling city, known as Saigon before its surrender to communist 
forces in America's most humiliating military defeat. Clinton, after 
two days in Hanoi, arrived near midnight Saturday night. Despite the 
hour, thousands lined the route for his 15-minute drive from the airport, 
many waving, some cheering, as his motorcade swept by. On the final 
day of his groundbreaking Vietnam visit, Clinton was to meet John 
Baptist Pham Minh Man, archbishop of Ho Chi Minh City, thereby demonstrating 
support for the right to religious worship, White House officials 
said. Ahead of Clinton's appearances, police broke up a sit-in by 
more than 150 peasants who had camped out beneath protest banners 
for several months near a government office. The communist government's 
decision to allow the protest over land to go on for so long suggested 
a gradual loosening of official controls. But the peaceful overnight 
dispersal revealed the limits of what the regime will tolerate, as 
well as its sensitivity to international scrutiny during the U.S. 
president's visit. Leaving Hanoi, Clinton stood at attention on a 
floodlit tarmac as a U.S. military honor guard took possession of 
the remains of three missing Americans and sent them to Hawaii for 
identification. Much of Saturday was devoted to American MIAs and 
Vietnamese children maimed from leftover mines and bombs in the Vietnam 
War, subjects that weighed heavily on Clinton's emotions. The president 
visited a rice paddy outside Hanoi where recovery workers were digging 
through mud for any remains of Air Force fighter pilot Lawrence G. 
Evert, whose jet crashed on a bombing run in 1967. Evert's sons, David 
and Daniel from Chandler, Ariz., accompanied the president. ``When 
we were younger, about 6 and 8, we used to talk about how we would 
come over to Vietnam and come get him out of jail _ we thought he 
was alive so we thought we'd come get him and take him home and rescue 
him,'' said David, now 39. ``And we kind of feel like that's what 
we're doing right now.'' Tears welled in Clinton's eyes as he stood 
on a bamboo-supported platform beside the excavation pit. ``Whether 
we are American or Vietnamese,'' Clinton said, ``I think we all want 
to know where our loved ones are buried.'' Clinton is the first president 
in 31 years to visit Vietnam and the first ever to stop in Hanoi. 
In a farewell meeting with President Tran Duc Luong in Hanoi, he joked 
about the U.S. election stalemate: ``I have to go home to see if there's 
a president.'' Luong called Clinton's visit ``a new page'' in relations. 
``It's a shame this is so short,'' Luong said. ``I hope the next U.S. 
president will continue what we have started.'' U.S. Ambassador Pete 
Peterson said the visit had improved understanding and trust between 
the two nations. After losing 58,000 Americans in Vietnam, the United 
States withdrew its combat forces in 1973. Two years later, on April 
30, 1975, a rear guard of 11 Marines scrambled aboard a helicopter 
at the U.S. Embassy in a blaze of tear gas and smoke grenades. They 
fled Saigon as communist forces surged into the city and the U.S.-backed 
government announced an unconditional surrender. Saigon was renamed 
Ho Chi Minh City in honor of the revolutionary leader who declared 
Vietnam's independence from French rule in 1945 and led the struggle 
against the United States. In a striking gesture of reconciliation, 
Clinton went to the Communist Party headquarters in Hanoi and chatted 
amiably with party secretary Le Kha Phieu. He is head of an 18-member 
politburo that determines government policy. ``I hope you have enjoyed 
your stay,'' Phieu said. ``I'm very much enjoying my time here,'' 
Clinton replied. ``The people have been very kind.'' The president 
also attended a ceremony intended to raise consciousness about unexploded 
mines and bombs that still wound or kill 2,000 Vietnamese a year. 
Clinton called land mines ``the curse of innocent children all over 
the world.'' He said there are about 300,000 tons of unexploded ordnance 
and about 3.5 million land mines buried in Vietnam. ``You will have 
America's support until you have found every land mine and every piece 
of unexploded ordnance,'' the president said. ``This is the tragedy 
of war for which peace produces no answer.'' He met four children 
maimed by unexploded ordnance. Hoan Quang Sy, 11, extended both arms 
to Clinton in a traditional Asian greeting, but his left hand was 
gone, the result of an old bomb. Neither country has signed a 1977 
treaty outlawing land mines, which the United States stockpiles and 
Vietnam produces. The United States says mines are needed in the Korean 
Peninsula until an effective alternative is found. At the Hanoi airport, 
the U.S. honor guard carried in turn three small wooden boxes of remains, 
each placed in an aluminum casket and covered by the American flag 
as the guard saluted and Clinton stood at attention beside Peterson. 
The remains were placed on a C-117 for transport to Hawaii. In all, 
21 sets of remains from two wars _ the three sets from Vietnam, three 
from neighboring Laos and 15 from North Korea _ are being taken to 
Army forensics experts in Hawaii for identification, arriving Monday. 
Friday morning, Clinton's motorcade rode on a narrow dirt road to 
a village by a railroad bridge targeted by a squadron of four American 
warplanes on Nov. 8, 1967. One of the planes, piloted by Evert, was 
shot down. Vietnamese workers and American experts are searching for 
his remains in the thick clay, forcing it through a mesh sieve. ``This 
common endeavor we make as friends is unprecedented in all of human 
history,'' Clinton said. Evert was shot down five days before the 
birth of his fourth child, a daughter named Elizabeth. David recalled 
the last time he saw his dad, at the Phoenix airport. ``As he walked 
up the stairs to get on to the plane ... he turned and he waved to 
us.'' David Evert expressed his gratitude to the Vietnamese for helping 
recover the remains. ``It's very touching to see the Vietnamese people 
working to push the mud through, to find the little pieces,'' he said. 
``We want them to know that we love them and we don't hold any animosity 
toward them at all. And we feel it's a time for healing for everybody.'' 
The Vietnamese count about 300,000 of their people still missing. 
The United States lists 1,498 Americans missing in Vietnam, 421 in 
Laos and 65 in Cambodia. ``The United States is doing ... all we can 
to help the people of Vietnam find answers about their missing, as 
well,'' Clinton said. He expressed gratitude to the Army's Central 
Identification Laboratory in Hawaii and those ``who help to end the 
anguish of not knowing.'' ``Our nation has made a commitment that 
we will not rest until we've achieved the fullest possible accounting 
for our lost veterans,'' the president said. ___ On the Web: CIA World 
Factbook: http://www.odci.gov/cia/publications/factbook/geos/vm.html