Concluding a historic visit, President Clinton urged this communist 
nation Sunday to open its economy and allow greater individual freedoms, 
saying the rewards of a free-market system ``should be embraced, not 
feared.'' The first U.S. president to visit since the Vietnam War, 
Clinton declared, ``The years of animosity are past. Today we have 
a shared interest in your well-being and your prosperity. We have 
a stake in your future and we wish to be your partners. We wish you 
success.'' After a two-day visit to Hanoi where he nurtured long-bitter 
U.S.-Vietnam relations and got the Communist Party's upbeat view of 
post-war Vietnam from the party's top leader, Clinton arrived in the 
city once known as Saigon to cheers of thousands of people who lined 
the streets late at night. In the final hours of the president's visit 
to the country, Clinton stopped at a shipping dock on the Saigon River. 
Under the shadow of two giant cranes, he spoke at a container terminal 
that is a joint venture between a Vietnamese state-owned company and 
a multinational firm. Clinton said Vietnam's own government acknowledges 
that state-owned enterprises cannot create enough jobs for Vietnam, 
one of the poorest countries in the world with an average annual income 
of $372. ``But Vietnam's young people have the talent and ideas to 
create the jobs of the future for themselves in a new era of entrepreneurship, 
innovation and competition. ``That must be the future for Vietnam 
and its young people,'' the president told an audience of about 2,000 
people in the midday heat. The United States and Vietnam signed a 
sweeping trade agreement this year that will force major economic 
reforms and allow generally unfettered commerce. Clinton said it would 
bring more investors here. ``Both our nations should ratify this agreement 
and implement it. The changes it will bring should be embraced, not 
feared,'' he said. Clinton promised that the United States would establish 
a $200 million line of credit to support U.S. investment in Vietnam. 
Earlier, Clinton plunged into crowds in a narrow shopping street, 
shaking hands and stopping at open-front markets to buy last-minute 
gifts. To a generation of American GIs, this bustling city of 5 million 
people was known as Saigon before its surrender to communist forces 
in America's most humiliating military defeat. The president sat in 
a courtyard of the city's fine arts museum to discuss Vietnam's future 
with young people in business, academia, the arts and the media. He 
extolled the virtues of freedom and opportunity and the challenges 
of the global economy. ``One of the great debates every society must 
have is how to balance individual freedom with the need for ... cohesion 
of families, communities and nation,'' the president said. Despite 
Clinton's pleas, Vietnam's powerful Communist Party chief said his 
country would go its own way. ``We respect other nations' choices 
of lifestyle and political systems,'' Le Kha Phieu was quoted as telling 
Clinton. ``We also demand other nations respect our country's political 
system and choices.'' Clinton, after two days in Hanoi, arrived near 
midnight Saturday. Despite the hour, thousands lined the route for 
his 15-minute drive from the airport, many waving, some cheering, 
as his motorcade swept by. Before leaving Vietnam on Sunday, Clinton 
also met with Jean-Baptiste Pham Minh Man, the Roman Catholic archbishop 
of Ho Chi Minh City. They talked for several minutes at city hall 
after Clinton addressed business leaders. National Security Council 
spokesman P.J. Crowley said they spoke about problems the archbishop 
faces in a country where international human rights groups cite a 
pattern of harassment and imprisonment of Buddhist and other religious 
leaders. The president also met with the mayor, Vo Viet Thanh. Ahead 
of Clinton's appearances, police broke up a sit-in by more than 150 
peasants who had camped out beneath protest banners for several months 
near a government office. The communist government's decision to allow 
the protest over land to go on for so long suggested a gradual loosening 
of official controls. But the peaceful overnight dispersal revealed 
the limits of what the regime will tolerate, as well as its sensitivity 
to international scrutiny during the U.S. president's visit. Leaving 
Hanoi, Clinton stood at attention on a floodlit tarmac as a U.S. military 
honor guard took possession of the remains of three missing Americans 
and sent them to Hawaii for identification. Much of Saturday was devoted 
to American MIAs and Vietnamese children maimed from leftover mines 
and bombs in the Vietnam War, subjects that weighed heavily on Clinton's 
emotions. The president visited a rice paddy outside Hanoi where recovery 
workers were digging through mud for any remains of Air Force fighter 
pilot Lawrence G. Evert, whose jet crashed on a bombing run in 1967. 
Evert's sons, David and Daniel from Chandler, Ariz., accompanied the 
president. ``When we were younger, about 6 and 8, we used to talk 
about how we would come over to Vietnam and come get him out of jail 
_ we thought he was alive so we thought we'd come get him and take 
him home and rescue him,'' said David, now 39. ``And we kind of feel 
like that's what we're doing right now.'' Tears welled in Clinton's 
eyes as he stood on a bamboo-supported platform beside the excavation 
pit. ``Whether we are American or Vietnamese,'' Clinton said, ``I 
think we all want to know where our loved ones are buried.'' Clinton 
is the first president in 31 years to visit Vietnam and the first 
ever to stop in Hanoi. In a farewell meeting with President Tran Duc 
Luong in Hanoi, he joked about the U.S. election stalemate: ``I have 
to go home to see if there's a president.'' Luong called Clinton's 
visit ``a new page'' in relations. ``It's a shame this is so short,'' 
Luong said. ``I hope the next U.S. president will continue what we 
have started.'' U.S. Ambassador Pete Peterson said the visit had improved 
understanding and trust between the two nations. After losing 58,000 
Americans in Vietnam, the United States withdrew its combat forces 
in 1973. Two years later, on April 30, 1975, a rear guard of 11 Marines 
scrambled aboard a helicopter at the U.S. Embassy in a blaze of tear 
gas and smoke grenades. They fled Saigon as communist forces surged 
into the city and the U.S.-backed government announced an unconditional 
surrender. Saigon was renamed Ho Chi Minh City in honor of the revolutionary 
leader who declared Vietnam's independence from French rule in 1945 
and led the struggle against the United States. In a striking gesture 
of reconciliation, Clinton went to the Communist Party headquarters 
in Hanoi and chatted amiably with party secretary Phieu. Vietnam began 
opening its economy in the mid-1980s. The effort waned during the 
Asian financial crisis, but then Vietnam signed a bilateral trade 
agreement with the United States in July that will force major reforms. 
``We have a private economic sector, but we do not privatize the entire 
economy. We are reorganizing cooperatives, not dismantling them,'' 
Phieu said in remarks quoted by the Communist Party newspaper Nhan 
Dan. The president also attended a ceremony intended to raise consciousness 
about unexploded mines and bombs that still wound or kill 2,000 Vietnamese 
a year. Clinton called land mines ``the curse of innocent children 
all over the world.'' He said there are about 300,000 tons of unexploded 
ordnance and about 3.5 million land mines buried in Vietnam. ___ On 
the Web: CIA World Factbook: http://www.odci.gov/cia/publications/factbook/geos/vm.html