Signaling the apparent demise of one of Latin America's most authoritarian 
rulers, two top government officials announced on Sunday that President 
Alberto Fujimori is planning to resign by Tuesday, ending a tumultuous 
decade in power that saw him do battle with terrorists, drug traffickers 
and hyperinflation before succumbing to a series of scandals. Second 
Vice President Ricardo Marquez, who until recently was a political 
unknown, said he was ready to take power until a new president can 
be elected in April and inaugurated on July 28. ``President Alberto 
Fujimori will present his resignation to Congress on Monday or Tuesday 
at the latest,'' Prime Minister Federico Salas said on a national 
radio network on Sunday morning. Salas stopped short of explaining 
why Fujimori, Latin America's second-longest surviving leader, after 
Fidel Castro of Cuba, was resigning so suddenly, but he added, ``What 
I know is that he does not want to be an obstacle to the process of 
democratization so that the next elections can be absolutely transparent.'' 
There was no immediate word from Fujimori, who is visiting Japan, 
but Sunda's announcements capped nine weeks in which the president's 
stature, once near invincible, has been in a free fall. Fijimori, 
62, had gradually lost his grip on power since winning a third five-year 
term in May in an election that was widely perceived as tainted. The 
fall began in mid-September when a videotape leaked to a cable television 
channel showed Fujimori's right-hand man, the intelligence chief Vladimiro 
Montesinos, apparently offering a $15,000 bribe to a congressman to 
switch parties. The tape was the opening act in a gripping political 
drama: Fujimori tried to save himself by dumping Montesinos, even 
over the opposition of military commanders, and promising that a new 
president would take office next July. Next, Montesinos resigned and 
flew to Panama seeking asylum, but returned and went into hiding last 
month. Fujimori ordered the arrest of Montesinos, who is considered 
to know all Peru's best-kept secrets, and even led the manhunt. But 
the intelligence chief remains at large, as reports emerge of several 
foreign bank accounts in which Montesinos is said to have at least 
$58 million. Fujimori, a son of Japanese immigrants, has frequently 
sought help from Japan in times of trouble, and is currently reported 
to be seeking financial aid to close his government's growing deficit. 
It was not immediately clear whether Fujimori would return to Peru 
or remain in Japan or some other Asian country to seek asylum. In 
Fujimori's absence, various opposition parties took control of Congress 
last week and elected a centrist congressman, Valentin Paniagua, as 
the leader of Congress. Should the opposition decide to remove the 
little known Marquez from power before the elections, scheduled for 
April 8, Paniagua could take over as president. But he is not considered 
a strong contender against the front-runner, Alejandro Toledo, another 
centrist who ran closely behind Fujimori in the first round of this 
year's election before dropping out of the second round, saying the 
vote was unfair. Salas telephoned the U.S. ambassador, John R. Hamilton, 
on Sunday to say Fujimori would not be returning to Peru anytime soon, 
a senior Clinton administration official said. Should Fujimori come 
back to Lima, he could face an inquiry into his financial dealings 
from government prosecutors already investigating Montesinos. Peruvian 
prosecutors are looking into charges that Montesinos was involved 
in running guns to Colombian guerrillas, laundering money and directing 
death squads. Fujimori, a former college professor, emerged from obscurity 
in 1990 to defeat the writer Mario Vargas Llosa and win the presidency. 
Facing a growing security threat from two terrorist groups and unable 
to persuade Congress to enact his program, he suspended the legislature 
and the Supreme Court in 1992. He defied the United States and the 
Organization of American States by taking nearly dictatorial powers, 
but his move was broadly endorsed by the Peruvian people, who handed 
him a landslide election victory in 1995. Even critics say Fujimori 
has accomplished much as president, virtually defeating the two terrorist 
groups, reducing inflation to single digits, making peace with Ecuador 
after several wars and significantly reducing both coca cultivation 
and trafficking in cocaine. But his often high-handed style undercut 
the independence of the courts and Congress, and landed hundreds if 
not thousands of innocent people in prison. He used much of his second 
term maneuvering to make way for a third term, which seemed not to 
be allowed by the Constitution. Controlling the new Congress and courts, 
Fujimori was able to get around this roadblock but a recession has 
eroded his popularity. This year he relied on Montesinos to defeat 
a growing opposition, but many Peruvians found the manipulation of 
the television media and the electoral apparatus difficult to accept. 
Salas said Fujimori had not ruled out running for Congress, which 
could give him immunity from prosecution. Fujimori has hinted that 
he would like to make a comeback and win back the presidency in the 
future. Salas also said Fujimori would resign from Japan, sending 
his resignation letter to Congress from there. Marquez, who replaced 
First Vice President Francisco Tudela after he resigned last month, 
said Fujimori had asked him to take power once his resignation took 
effect. The Japanese news media has speculated that Fujimori would 
remain in Japan for treatment of an unspecified disease. He has repeatedly 
refused to make any comments to reporters since he arrived in Japan 
late last week from a Pacific Rim leadership conference in Brunei. 
Fujimori had been scheduled to leave Tokyo for Panama on Saturday 
to attend a Latin summit meeting before returning to Lima, but he 
changed his plans at the last minute.