good evening. tonight the people of yugoslavia -- serbia -- have done 
what months of nato bombing and economic pressure could not -- they 
have driven slobodan milosevic from power in a day of violent protest, 
including the takeover of parliament, battles with police and then, 
finally, effectively a surrender by the security forces who abandoned 
the ruthless milosevic and joined the revolution. it was a stunning 
end to 11 days of protests following the disputed presidential election 
and nbc's jim maceda is in belgrade tonight. d-day for the opposition 
-- a massive demonstration. hundreds of thousands of serbs from the 
four corners of the country, converging on the capital of belgrade 
and the symbol of milosevic's 13-year rule, the federal parliament 
building. their ultimatum -- admit you stole the presidential election 
and step down or else. their anger, fueled by news overnight that 
milosevic's self-appointed court had canceled the whole vote. serbs 
now ready to shut down the nation. everything must stop. electricity. 
everything must stop. then he must go. surrounding the parliament, 
hundreds of riot police. then, chaos, a surging crowd overwhelming 
the police who fire tear gas. waves of serbs running in panic. others 
push forward. within minutes, police have retreated, and protesters 
take control. this, they proclaim, the seat of a new government, even 
as fires burn inside. by now, emotions raging in the streets. protesters 
setting fire to police cars and attacking the serb tv center, cutting 
off the milosevic-controlled broadcast. by now, two protesters killed. 
and reports of hundreds of injuries, dozens serious, on both sides 
of pitched battles. but the tide changed quickly in these streets. 
and special units of riot police who had been firing tear gas and 
rubber bullets at protesters, now pulling out and heading back to 
base. amid cries of "victory," police, even the commando units most 
loyal to milosevic, put down their weapons and embrace their fellow 
serbs. the order to fire never given or not obeyed. chanting for the 
first time, serbs truly believe what they are chanting -- "milosevic 
is finished" -- and this man, vojislav kostunica, the new legitimate 
president. tonight, kostunica appears at the battered parliament, 
appealing for calm, calling for a smooth transition of power. but 
milosevic, not seen since his public attack on the opposition two 
days ago, rumors growing that he's in hiding or even fled the country 
on a yugoslav air force plane, heading south. but tonight, for these 
people, milosevic is history. a massive street party celebrating, 
they say, a new era of change and democracy. tom, there is some tension 
around the belgrade police headquarters. protesters chanting outside. 
confused police inside. otherwise, it's the street party atmosphere 
that is continuing well into the night. tens of thousands of people 
outside chanting joyously. tom? jim, secretary of state madeleine 
albright says that washington has some information that it believes 
now that milosevic has left the country. are you able to confirm that 
at all? well there are rumors, tom, that he has fled to russia. that 
he is in china. but there's a tremendous amount of activity at his 
residents north of belgrade. bugss and bus loads of police, chopper 
activity overhead has suggested he is there. thanks very much, jim 
maceda tonight in belgrade.