the president is headed home tonight, following a historic trip to 
vietnam -- a trip as much about the future as it was about the past. 
last stop -- ho chi minh city, once saigon. abc's john cochran traveling 
with the president. on his final day in vietnam, president clinton 
visited the container docks on taigon river, where a quarter of a 
century ago, american ships unloaded war material. mrclinton told 
the communist authorities that if they want more american investment, 
they must move faster toward free trade and a free society. you will 
grow even more as your economy becomes more open and the rule of law 
develops. as in hanoi, the president was warmly received by the people 
in ho chi minh city, at least by those who knew he was here. in much 
of the country, the state-controlled news media have given little 
coverage to his visit. it is still a relationship complicated by emotion 
on both sides. as the american ambassador here said, for some people 
the war will never end. that is more true of the old than the young. 
and this is a young country. most vietnamese were born after american 
troops left. but the authorities have tried to make sure the war is 
never forgotten, a war in which 3 million vietnamese died. the art 
museum here has an entire floor devoted to paintings of the fight 
against america. still, american officials say the vietnamese are 
cooperating fully in trying to recover the remains of missing americans. 
the emotional high-point of the president's visit came when he saw 
vietnamese working to find the remains of pilot who may have crashed 
here 33 years ago. the pilot's sons expressed their appreciation. 
we want them to know that we love them, and we don't hold any animosity 
toward them at all. mr. clinton also attended a ceremony for three 
americans whose remains were recovered and will be sent home for identification. 
neither side got everything they wanted from his visit. the communists 
made no promises to respect human rights, and mr. clinton refused 
apologize for the war. still, he came here, and for the vietnamese, 
that is no small thing. john cochran, abc news, ho chi minh city.