President Alberto Fujimori, whose 10-year authoritarian rule has crumbled 
in recent months over corruption scandals, said in Tokyo early Monday 
that he would resign within 48 hours. Fujimori issued a brief written 
statement confirming announcements made hours earlier in Peru by his 
prime minister and his second vice president. Second Vice President 
Ricardo Marquez said Fujimori, who has been in his ancestral homeland 
Japan since Friday, had asked him to step in as president until special 
elections are held in April and a new leader takes office in July. 
The statement issued by Fujimori did not explain why he was stepping 
down. Prime Minister Federico Salas said the president would give 
his reasons when he presents his resignation to Congress on Monday 
or Tuesday. ``What I know is that he does not want to be an obstacle 
to the process of democratization so that the next elections can be 
elections absolutely transparent for the Peruvian people,'' Salas 
told radio station Radioprogramas. Fujimori refused to meet with a 
crowd of reporters who had gathered at his Tokyo hotel. A Peruvian 
embassy official, who refused to give his name, handed out a brief 
statement in Spanish confirming that the president would resign. ``President 
Alberto Fujimori confirmed ... that he is resigning as president,'' 
the statement said. ``In the course of 48 hours, he is going to formalize 
the decision with the newly elected president of the Congress.'' It 
was not immediately clear if Fujimori intended to go back to Peru 
to hand in his resignation. Fujimori's ministers said they had decided 
to resign but would continue on until it was clear who was taking 
over the government. In a written statement, the ministers expressed 
their ``indignation'' that Fujimori's announcement was ``made outside 
the country in the context of a grave crisis and uncertainty about 
his return.'' In Washington, White House spokeswoman Mary Ellen Countryman 
said the United States would work with the Organization of American 
States to insure a smooth transition. ``What's important for Peru 
is that the transition to the April 8 elections proceeds smoothly 
and peacefully. And we will continue to work with the OAS on that 
process.'' Fujimori's announcement came amid a growing corruption 
scandal around the president's fugitive ex-intelligence chief, Vladimiro 
Montesinos. The scandal forced the 62-year-old Fujimori to announce 
in September that he would step down in July after new elections _ 
ending a decade of iron-fisted rule. Normally under the constitution, 
First Vice President Francisco Tudela would assume the presidency. 
But Tudela presented his resignation hours after Montesinos returned 
to Peru on Oct. 23 after a failed asylum bid in Panama. Tudela complained 
that Fujimori was not in control of Montesinos and his allies. Marquez, 
the second vice president, had said that he, too, would resign if 
Congress _ which last week came under opposition control for the first 
time since 1992 _ took measures to remove Fujimori. But he said Sunday 
that Fujimori asked him not to quit. ``I've just spoken with him and 
he has said he would like me to assume the position and I told the 
president that ... I am going to take the post,'' Marquez told radio 
station CPN. But there were signs that a power struggle may develop. 
Former presidential candidate Alejandro Toledo _ who boycotted a May 
runoff against Fujimori, alleging fraud _ said in a radio interview 
from France that Marquez's association with Fujimori's ``illegitimate'' 
government should rule him out as a transition leader. Peru's human 
rights ombudsman Jorge Santistevan said Tudela, the first vice president, 
had the right to the post because Congress had not yet accepted his 
resignation. ``I am sure Tudela is up to the circumstances of administering 
the executive branch until the end and guaranteeing that Paniagua 
plays the role that corresponds to his democratic credentials in Congress,'' 
Santistevan said. Next in line for succession after the second vice 
president is the Congress president, Valentin Paniagua, a political 
moderate who was installed last week by opposition legislators. Fujimori's 
trip abroad prompted a wave of rumors that he would step down and 
seek asylum. He was criticized for leaving Peru to attend the Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation forum summit in Brunei on Wednesday and Thursday. 
On Friday, he made an unannounced detour to Japan, canceling a planned 
trip to Panama this weekend where Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking 
leaders held an Ibero-American summit. At first Japanese officials 
had said he was in the country only for a layover to change planes, 
then Japan's Foreign Ministry said Fujimori would stay longer than 
planned because he had a cold. But later Saturday, the Peruvian government 
announced that Fujimori planned to remain in Tokyo until Wednesday 
to negotiate loans to ease Peru's financial problems. Fujimori, who 
first came to power in 1990, was born to Japanese immigrant parents 
who picked cotton in Peru until they opened a tailor's shop in downtown 
Lima. The president has maintained strong ties to Japan. His son, 
Hiro, lives there, as do his sister and brother-in-law, Victor Aritomi, 
Peru's ambassador to the country. Fujimori's grip on power began to 
fall apart after Montesinos, his longtime top aide was seen apparently 
bribing an opposition lawmaker to support the government. A videotape 
of the meeting between Montesinos and the lawmaker was leaked to the 
media. Montesinos fled to Panama but was denied asylum and returned 
to Peru. Since then, Fujimori has led an unsuccessful manhunt for 
Montesinos, who is wanted for alleged money-laundering after Swiss 
authorities froze $48 million in accounts linked to the former spymaster. 
The amount under investigation swelled to $58 million after other 
accounts were discovered, authorities said. Montesinos faces criminal 
complaints in Peru ranging from directing state-sponsored death squads 
and torture to skimming profits from narcotics trades during his 10 
years as Fujimori's top aide. Despite Montesinos' dark reputation, 
Fujimori for years defended their close relationship, insisting that 
Montesinos had proved highly effective in helping to defeat leftist 
rebels and undercut narcotics trafficking. Fujimori won a third five-year 
term last May in an election marred by irregularities and boycotted 
by international observers. His foes said Montesinos masterminded 
an illegal campaign of intimidation, fraud and dirty tricks to ensure 
Fujimori's victory. ``Fujimori's resignation under these circumstances 
does nothing but confirm his responsibility for 10 years of control 
of Peru by a mafia,'' said opposition Congressman Fernando Olivera. 
``Fujimori is mistaken if he thinks that this resignation will be 
enough to obtain complete impunity. The slate should not be wiped 
clean.''