Here are the stories New York Times editors are planning for Page 
1, Monday, Nov. 20. The evening supervisor for The New York Times 
News Service is Lynn Hoogenboom; phone: 888-346-9867 or 212-556-1927; 
e-mail: lyhoog(at)nytimes.com. TOP Lead story: ELN-HANDCOUNT (Fort 
Lauderdale, Fla.) _ With the Florida Supreme Court set to hear arguments 
on the fate of manual recounts of the presidential vote, hand recounts 
in two counties resumed Sunday at a sluggish pace as Republicans again 
harshly criticized the process, saying its fairness was compromised 
by problems ranging from workers' fatigue to another change in the 
definition of a vote. By Don Van Natta Jr. (We plan to move the story 
by 8 p.m. ET in ``p'' news file.) Top center stories: ELN-RDP (Tallahassee, 
Fla.) _ Lawyers for Gov. George W. Bush contended today that Florida 
law set a clear deadline of last Tuesday for counties to submit all 
vote tallies except overseas absentee ballots, and they asked the 
Florida Supreme Court to let the state reject any manual recounts 
conducted after that. By Todd S. Purdum and David Firestone. (Scheduled 
to move by 8:30 p.m. ET in ``p'' news file.) ELN-MILITARY (Tallahassee, 
Fla.) _ Sen. Joseph Lieberman, the Democratic candidate for vice president, 
said Sunday that Florida election officials should reconsider their 
rejection of hundreds of military ballots from overseas, even if they 
might not comply with the law, after Democrats were stung by Republican 
charges that they had mounted a concerted effort to disenfranchise 
service men and women. By Richard Perez-Pena. (Story has moved in 
``p'' news file.) Off Lead PERU-FUJIMORI (Lima, Peru) _ Signaling 
the apparent demise of one of Latin America's most authoritarian rulers, 
two top officials announced Sunday that President Alberto Fujimori 
is planning to resign by Tuesday, ending a tumultuous decade in power 
that saw him do battle with terrorists, drug traffickers and hyperinflation 
before succumbing to a series of scandals. By Clifford Krauss. (Story 
has moved in ``i'' news file.) FOLD ELN-LEGAL (Washington) _ For a 
brief interval late Friday afternoon, it appeared that the electoral 
stalemate in Florida might finally be headed toward something approaching 
a definitive judicial resolution in the state Supreme Court. Not anymore. 
By Linda Greenhouse. (Scheduled to move by 8 p.m. ET in ``p'' news 
file.) BOTTOM VIETNAM-CLINTON (Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam) _ President 
Clinton ended an emotional three-day visit to Vietnam Sunday as he 
began it, pressing America's former foe _ gently but insistently _ 
to set aside its fears and join it in the global marketplace of trade 
and ideas. By Seth Mydans. With photos and map. (Story has moved in 
``i'' news file.) INSIDE STORIES PROMOTED ON PAGE 1: GERMANY-DEPORT 
(Munich, Germany) _ Deportation has become a nonword in German since 
Hitler, and no official here would ever use the term ``deportieren.'' 
But departures, forced or not, have been proceeding briskly in the 
southern state of Bavaria, where about 22,000 Kosovo Albanians remained 
at the start of the year. By Roger Cohen. (Story has moved in ``i'' 
news file.) CLIMATE-CONTROL (The Hague, Netherlands) _ In a shift 
that is likely to boost prospects for a global warming treaty, American 
negotiators at talks here have said the United States would be willing 
to limit its use of forest projects to reach its target for reducing 
heat-trapping greenhouse gases. By Andrew C. Revkin. (Story has moved 
in ``i'' news file.)