This is VOA News now in Washington. I'm Ray Krugell. After 10 years 
in power, Peru's embattled President Alberto Fujimori says he will 
resign on Monday or Tuesday. Mr. Fujimori had originally said he would 
remain in office until elections could be held in April. His latest 
comments to the Peruvian people were made in a written statement from 
Tokyo. They come at a time when his government is enmeshed in a scandal 
involving his former intelligence Chief Vladimir Montecinos. Mr. Montecinos 
was video taped, apparently offering a bribe to an opposition Congressman 
and trying to get him to support President Fujimori. Following the 
President's announcement, came word his cabinet would resign as well. 
British journalist Sally Bowen has been based in the Peruvian capital 
for several years and told News Now's Tom Crosby, it suddenly seems 
events are moving at a very fast pace. Yes, it is. In fact, the cabinet 
hasn't resigned all of it. Well, at least all the 12 ministers who 
are in Peru at the moment. The Foreign Relations minister is still 
in Panama where he is coming back. But basically the whole cabinet 
have resigned. And they say they're indignant of this surprise decision 
by Fujimori. Why should they be indignant about this. Why react in 
this manner? I think that they feel they have been covering his back 
all the time, since he made this also surprise decision in the middle 
of September, to cut short his presidential period. The economy minister 
said several times you know, "We thought we were a cabinet coming 
in with a new government, with new policies and we are going to get 
back on track and democratize the country and do economic reforms'. 
And he said, "Within a month, you know, within six weeks we discover 
we are an outgoing cabinet". They have kept loyal to Fujimori. I mean 
the last few days, amid rumors that Fujimori might not come back, 
they have been supporting him, and I think they just feel very let 
down. I think that's the reason for the indignance. Indeed, you noted 
that President Fujimori made his announcement from Japan where he 
is visiting. And I gather from what you are saying there is some question 
as to whether or not he may return to Peru? He made, his departure, 
let's say, last Monday was very unexpected. He didn't inform the cabinet 
that he was going until he was on the way to the airport. He took 
a very strange and circuitous route and apparently dropped off a large 
number of boxes and suitcases in the United States on the way. And 
on Wednesday, one of the former opposition Congress people said he 
had his own very good information that Fujimori was not going to come 
back and he was going to take political asylum. And senior cabinet 
ministers pooh poohed this and said that it was irresponsible rumor 
mongering. But, you know, it seems to have been closer to the truth 
than they believed at the time. Sally, if he were to return, would 
he be facing some sort of possible criminal indictment or that kind 
of thing? Not so far as we know at that moment. As you probably know 
there is a major investigation underway of Vladimiro Montecinos, his 
security advisor for the past 10 years. Indeed. And Montecinos has 
now been charged with money laundering, drug trafficking, corruption 
of public officials, a whole - oh, torture, and assassination to name 
but a few. There's nothing at this moment that seems to involve President 
Fujimori with any of those charges. But obviously by implication, 
he is at least tarnished. It may simply turn out to be political responsibility 
rather than criminal responsibility, but I think, you know, at this 
stage we don't know where the investigations may lead, and there may 
be more to come out. Sally, with the President announcing his plans 
to resign, the cabinet stepping down as well, does this plunge the 
government into chaos, or is there some sort of an orderly transition 
that should and could be taking place? I think it would be fair to 
say that it's pretty chaotic at the moment. Not chaotic in the sense 
that things are going to fall apart tomorrow, and the armed forces 
incidently have put out a communiqu saying that they completely respect 
the constitutionally elected authorities and whatever they decide, 
so that's you know, that's one element of worry or concern that we 
seem to be able to forget about for the moment. But the succession 
is not clear. The Vice President of Fujimori resigned four weeks ago 
when Montecinos came back. So, the first Vice President theoretically 
is no longer in the running. The second Vice President is a very low 
profile character and we have only just got a new President to the 
Congress about 3 or 4 days ago and I think what we'll find in the 
next couple of days is a sort of power struggle between the second 
Vice President and the President of Congress, and probably the opposition 
will prefer the latter. Indeed, the second Vice President Ricardo 
Marquez is quoted in news reports as saying he is ready to head-up 
a transition government. He has said that today, although he has said 
2 or 3 days ago that if President Fujimori were to resign he would 
also go. I think the opposition argument is that Marquez was involved 
in the same illegitimate election as President Fujimori himself and 
is therefore not really the right person to lead the transition. They 
would prefer this new and, you know, I think unquestionably democratic 
and constitutional Vice President of Congress, Valentine Paneagua. 
That's Sally Bowen, a journalist who has been based in Lima, Peru 
for several years talking with VOA's Tom Crosby. The US embassy in 
Lima says it is not yet clear who will head the interim government, 
but a spokesman urged all parties to cooperate, to ensure what he 
termed a peaceful and constitutional transition. The countries Congress 
reverted to opposition control last week and lawmakers have repeatedly 
called for President Fujimori's early resignation.