good evening. there has been a revolution in yugoslavia. and, as of 
tonight, the people seem to have won. take a look at these scenes 
in belgrade. even the police are with the people. people fed up with 
being the poorest country in europe, cut off from the rest of the 
world, an economic basket case, beaten down by the nato bombing and 
economic sanctions. we talked to colleagues in yugoslavia throughout 
the day. what was the straw that broke the camel's back? what did 
the dictator, slobodan milosevic, finally do wrong? milosevic called 
a free election said one of them, and when he refused to accept the 
results, finally the long-suffering serbs had had enough. we do not 
know precisely tonight where slobodan milosevic is or what his plans 
are. is he somewhere in the serbian countryside? has he left the country? 
perhaps for exile in russia? we do know the leader of the opposition 
is now the new president. first here's our rorter, bob woodruff. tonight, 
the people of belgrade celebrate with their police. the security force 
once loyal to slobodan milosevic are now with the opposition. and 
the people have reclaimed the yugoslav parliament building. but the 
day did not start this way. fighting through tear gas this morning, 
demonstrators stormed and occupied the yugoslav parliament building, 
a human tide of anger and frustration, and finally joy. the police 
were remarkably restrained. if there were orders to use violence against 
the people, those orders were ignored. as smoke rose from parliament, 
the riot squads were forced to retreat. the crowds attacked the symbols 
of the state. they seized the government-controlled television station 
and burned it. the broadcast cut to a concert and then to black. hours 
later, opposition stations broadcast scenes of the revolution. on 
the steps of the parliament, milosevic's opponent, vojislav kostunica, 
announced that he is now president. "serbia has taken the road of 
democracy," he said, "and where there is democracy, there is no place 
for slobodan milosevic." milosevic was nowhere to be seen, as the 
people rose up against him. although there were fears that this chaos 
would invite a military response, the yugoslav army stayed away. tonight, 
the president of montenegro, long threatened by milosevic, told abc 
news that the more than 15,000 yugoslav troops stationed here have 
not left their barracks. he believes the military will no longer obey 
their president. "milosevic," he says, "is a man whose political time 
has expired." tonight on the streets of belgrade, no one seems to 
doubt that. bob woodruff, abc news, podgarica, yugoslavia. we have 
been talking to belgrade throughout the day and just before the broadcast 
tonight, i checked in briefly with two men who know yugoslavia better 
than most. first some comments from steve erlanger of "the new york 
times." this has been quite a remarkable day. the serbs have risen 
up and taken back their country. the army has stayed out of things. 
what's the mood on the streets as you just wander around and talk 
to people? there's still a lot of anger. there's a little shame at 
the burning of the federal parliament itself, but i think a great 
deal of self-respect tonight. but still also some fear that during 
the night, somehow, some way, mr. milosevic, a very crafty man, will 
strike back. and then we talked to misha glenny, who knows the whole 
region extremely well, working tonight for abc. peter, this is the 
most amazing thing i have ever seen. almost an entire people has risen 
against its leader, slobodan milosevic, and thrown him out of power 
in what i can only describe as a furious outburst of fervor. it is 
like everyone is coming out of a nightmare here in belgrade and there's 
no way slobodan milosevic is going to get back. the police have already 
given up entirely, and the army also are not going to move against 
this people. they are surrounded by demonstrators. they've handed 
over their helmets, their jackets, their weapons. they cannot fight 
against this. what do you know about the rest of the country? the 
rest of the country does matter because it is the rest of the country 
which has created this revolution. over the past five or six days, 
belgrade has been reluctant. tall media have been blocked, but in 
the rest of the country, the most astonishing things have happened. 
u.s. intelligence has tried to keep an eye on this. go to john m wethy. 
milosevic, do they think he's going into exile or might he stay in 
serbia? growing circumstantial evidence that he probably will have 
to leave, peter, although analysts warn never count this man out. 
it will be his last resort, if he does leave. they have some intelligence 
indicating he's tried to get ahold of some of his top military commanders 
and has been unable to do so. now he's an indicted war criminal. does 
the u.s. plan to arraign him? any country willing to take milosevic 
that the u.s. will not stand in the way. what should we be looking 
for in the next 24 snours. one of the things american intelligence 
is looking for, a neighbor, romanian has given clearance for a transport 
to fly into yugoslavia and out tomorrow99 tomorrow. abc news has learned 
that this is something they are going to be watching, u.s. intelligence 
very closely. thank you very much, john. watch for a russian military 
transport. this broadcast continues at abc news.com, where there is 
a good deal more about this, including a profile of vojislav kostunica, 
the man who's now in charge and a name now to be remembered.