01:36 Universal time, you are listening to VOA News Now. In Washington, 
I'm Ray Krugell. Ivory Coast's new civilian government is calling 
for reconciliation among all ethnic and political factions following 
the worst bout of violence in the country's history. Many international 
observers are looking at the parliamentary elections slated for early 
December as a test of President Laron Gbagbo's resolve to build an 
inclusive government. Today's Dateline examines the roots of the political 
turmoil in a country once known as "The Jewel of West Africa." Here 
is Carol Castiel. Since independence from France in 1960, Ivory Coast, 
the world's top cocoa producer, was seen as a model of economic prosperity 
and stability in West Africa. That image was shattered last December 
when a mutiny by soldiers escalated into a coup that deposed President 
Henri Konan Bedie. VOA correspondent, Louis Ramirez, explains why 
the take over met with little popular opposition. Despite its international 
reputation for stability, many Ivorians welcomed the coup. The Bedie 
administration, they believed had brought Ivory Coast widespread corruption 
and rapid economic decline, much of which Mr. Bedie blamed on the 
country's vast population of immigrant workers from neighboring nations. 
When General Robert Guei assumed power after the December coup, he 
like Mr. Bedie, sought to use the immigrants to his advantage. In 
his campaign to be elected as a civilian President, the General sought 
to discredit his main opponent at the time, former Prime Minister 
Alassane Ouattara, by claiming Mr. Ouattara is not fully Ivorian. 
The Ivorian Supreme Court last month barred Mr. Ouattara from running 
against General Guei in the elections citing doubts about his nationality. 
The government claimed one of Ouattara's parents is from neighboring 
Burkina Faso. Mr. Ouattara enjoys support among the Juelus-speaking 
Muslims of Northern Ivory Coast who complained they have been shut 
out of national politics by Southern Christians. Many of the northerners 
are of Burkinabe descend. Tensions between members of the two groups 
burst last month when Ouattara's supporters took to the streets following 
the October 22nd Presidential elections. They battled Loran Gbagbo's 
mostly Christian supporters who had forced General Robert Guei from 
power on October 25th after the General tried to declare himself the 
winner of elections despite a victory by Mr. Gbagbo. As many as 200 
people were killed in three days of post election violence that included 
the burning of churches and mosques. This week, as part of a drive 
for reconciliation, President Gbagbo publicly shook hands with General 
Guei, who came out of hiding for the first time since his ouster. 
Mr. Gbagbo says what is important for me as Head of State of Ivory 
Coast, but also for the people, is that the country enter more and 
more into a process of re-building, of reconciliation. But many followers 
of Mr. Ouattara and his RDR accuse the government of not being sincere 
in its call for national unity. This Ouattara supporter, a 28-year-old 
teacher, says he believes reconciliation cannot occur unless the people 
of the North can fully participate in the political system. He says 
the only condition by which we will truly have peace is by letting 
Mr. Ouattara run for President and recognize his Ivorian nationality. 
He says the government must recognize his eligibility and recognize 
at the same time the people from the North are Ivorian. In an effort 
to placate the northerners, Loran Gbagbo has named a number of Juelus-speaking 
Muslims to top positions in his government but has rejected the RDR's 
demands for new Presidential elections. The new civilian government 
is promising transparency in the December 10th legislative election. 
The race is open to all Ivorians including those who are of foreign 
descent. VOA's Louis Ramirez reporting from the commercial capital 
Abidjan. Professor of History at Harvard University in Washington, 
Jeannie Madix Tungata is not optimistic about President Gbagbo's ability 
to unify a country that has over 60 ethnic groups and a large immigrant 
population. National reconciliation will be a problem for him. That's 
probably the foremost issue on his agenda at this time. Cutigua is 
composed of over 60 different ethnic groups. The first President and, 
you know, founding father of the nation, Ufwet Bueni understood the 
difficulties of holding together this nation with such strong ethnic 
identities in the region. So, national unity has always been a problem. 
Professor Tungata pointed out that Ivory Coast's first President Felix 
Houphouet-Boigny deliberately suppressed the formation of several 
political parties saying they would inevitably divide along ethnic 
lines and weaken national unity. So, he consolidated power under one 
party, the Democratic party of Ivory Coast, known as the PDCI. Upon 
Ufwet Bueni's death in 1993, two other major political parties emerged. 
The Rally of the Republicans or RDR, an offshoot of the PDCI, and 
the popular Ivorian front or FPI. When Ufwet died, Mr. Henri Konan 
Bedie assumed power. And as Louis Ramirez reported Mr. Bedie's rule 
became synonyms with mismanagement and corruption. To fend off political 
rivals, Mr. Bedie stirred up Xenophobia aimed at Muslim northerners. 
As Professor Tungata explains, it was Mr. Bedie who introduced the 
exclusionary concept of . In Cotibua, Henri Konan Bedie initiated 
this system to determine whether people residing within the country 
would be allowed to have the national identity card. This national 
identity card is necessary if in fact people are to vote. The effort 
for peoples from the South to then exclude peoples from the North 
from attaining their identity cards then became an issue. Why did 
this become an issue at this time? Henri Konan Bedie, as he moved 
closer and closer to the election of 2000, knew that Alassane Ouattara 
would be returning from the International Monetary Fund. Alassane 
Ouattara had served as an appointed Prime Minister under Ufwet and 
had been quite popular in that role. And he had actually begun to 
build a consistuency of support within the country. General Robert 
Guei who overthrew Mr. Bedie in a bloodless coup last December, perpetuated 
the notion that Mr. Ouattara, a Muslim from the North, was not a native 
of the Ivory Coast. However, Professor Tungata asserted that earlier 
Supreme Court rulings refuted that claim. It was clear through the 
investigations of the Supreme Court at that time, that Alassane Ouattara 
was in fact Ivorian. His mother was born in the Ogene region. His 
father was born in the region of Cong and had served in the French 
Civil Service. It was in the French tradition to send their civil 
servants to any of their colonies within the region. So, at the time 
of independence, Alassane Ouattara's father was serving in the French 
Civil Service in Upper Volta. Upper Volta, which is known today as 
Burkina Faso is just across the border from Ivory Coast. Subsequently, 
Mr. Ouattara was awarded a scholarship to the United States and travel 
documents from Burkina Faso. Again, Professor Tungata. And so here 
begins the saga and the destruction of the character of Alassane Ouattara. 
Despite being barred from the recent presidential election, which 
elevated Laron Gbagbo to power, Mr. Ouattara does plan to contest 
the upcoming parliamentary elections on behalf of the RDR. Professor 
Tungata says these elections are crucial to Ivory Coast's international 
credibility. The transparency of the legislative elections in Gbagbo's 
capacity to ensure that these are free and fair elections, will determine 
the direction of the Western nations and their attitude towards the 
Gbagbo regime. However, if the recent ethnic and religious violence 
continues to rack the Ivory Coast, it is doubtful that elections will 
unfold without incident. Ivory Coast politics was the subjects of 
today's Dateline. I'm Carol Castiel.