President Clinton's historic three-day visit to communist-ruled Vietnam 
was partly aimed at invigorating economic cooperation between the 
two former enemies. Asian News center, the slow pace of economic reform 
in Vietnam continues to be a huge obstacle to closer business ties 
and more trade. As the first serving US President to visit post war 
Vietnam, Mr. Clinton can take credit for smoothing the path to reconciliation. 
In 1994, he lifted a punitive trade embargo that had been in place 
since the war ended in 1975 in a communist victory. President Clinton 
then oversaw the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1995. Earlier 
this year, he persuaded both countries to sign a bilateral trade agreement. 
The deal calls for Vietnam to continue economic reform and open its 
markets to foreign goods. The United States is required to provide 
Vietnam with investments, training, as well as business and technical 
assistance. Neither side has yet to ratify the trade pact but the 
Vice Chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hanoi, Tony Foster 
says the agreement is sorely needed. He notes many US firms that had 
rushed in to invest six years ago, have left, frustrated by Vietnam's 
complex bureaucracy, high costs and corruption. I think there still 
substantial skepticism about whether the reward that you can obtain 
from investing in the country, or worse, the evident risks of coming 
here. I think the general enthusiasm of the early to mid 90's certainly 
don't exist. Despite a reasonable recovery from the 1997 Asian financial 
crisis, Mr. Foster says foreign investments in Vietnam are not expected 
to top more than $780 million this year, a 10-year low. International 
donors have criticized Vietnam for stalling on previous pledges to 
reform its creaking economy. Nearly half of the country's economic 
output still comes from state-owned firms, severely limiting competition. 
That could potentially make it difficult for Vietnam to fully comply 
with extensive market opening provisions contained in the trade pact. 
Still the agreement does hold some promise for increased bilateral 
trade. The deal, once passed, would see import tariffs drop significantly. 
Hanoi is projecting its exports to the United States, mainly footwear, 
garments and seafood, to grow by at least 30 percent in the first 
three years after ratification. Meanwhile, Vietnam's economy is showing 
signs of recovering from a thee-year slump. The government says the 
economy grew almost seven percent this year, up from less than five 
percent in 1999. Foreign companies currently operating in Vietnam 
like Ford Motors are posting better second half earnings. The company's 
General Director Debra Erinson says business confidence appears to 
have reemerged with the signing of the trade agreement. The business 
environment is much better. I think that the Vietnamese community 
feels much better about the economy and they are starting to spend 
the money that they have been saving. This is a very young country, 
with 79 and half million people, 80 percent of the population is 30 
years old or younger. With the trade agreement and more investments 
in this country, the income levels are going to go up, the employment 
levels will continue to go up. You can chart what's going to happen 
in the future. US trade officials say representatives of more than 
40 US companies will be in Vietnam with Mr. Clinton to study investment 
opportunities. They will also likely watch to see if the presidential 
trip can spur Vietnam's reform process ahead of the trade agreement 
ratification expected to happen by mid next year. Alisha Rue, VOA 
News, Hong Kong.