Bill Clinton went to extraordinary lengths 30 years ago to avoid showing 
up here for the United States' first conflict with Vietnam. But in 
the final days of his presidency, with crowds cheering him on in Hanoi, 
and on Sunday in the city that Americans will always call Saigon, 
Clinton threw himself into the middle of Vietnam's most immediate 
conflict: the battle within a divided government over how fast and 
how far to open the country to the capitalist, democratic forces that 
Vietnam's Communist leaders thought they had defeated. The players, 
the passions and the geopolitics are entirely different, of course, 
and America's stake in the outcome is vastly diminished. Yet throughout 
the president's visit _ as he plunged into crowds, debated Vietnam's 
conservative elite, and talked on Sunday morning with young entrepreneurs 
for whom the Ho Chi Minh Trail is a highway project _ everyone involved 
understood exactly what was going on. Clinton was here chiefly to 
celebrate reconciliation. But it was reconciliation with an edge, 
because at every turn he argued that the Communist government in Hanoi 
could not overcome the forces of global economic integration the way 
it overcame the United States and its allies over a quarter-century 
ago. Vietnam's plans to flourish economically, he insisted, will work 
only if the country builds a fair legal system, allows free travel, 
embraces the Internet, and gradually opens its political system. Clearly, 
many in the streets seemed to get the message, and some who disagreed 
came out to wave and cheer anyway. But Clinton left the country's 
leaders exactly where he found them: bickering, conflicted and wondering 
how they had won the war and lost the peace. In a remarkable moment 
at the Communist Party headquarters in Hanoi late Saturday afternoon, 
Clinton plunged into a spirited exchange with the country's leading 
hard-liner, Le Kha Phieu, the Communist Party chief and the most influential 
member of the Vietnamese leadership. Phieu had watched Clinton's nationally 
broadcast speech to students and seen the reception the president 
was getting on the streets, and clearly he was fed up. ``We have seen 
the collapse of the USSR,'' Phieu said of his country's former patron. 
And yet, he told the president, according to two American participants 
in the meeting, ``we are still on our feet, we have reaffirmed socialism.'' 
He went on to describe how Vietnam had begun to produce enough rice 
to feed itself and how it was determined to find its own way without 
surrendering its socialist principles. He argued that the economy 
could grow, even if it is divided into state sectors, private sectors 
and foreign sectors, with politically sensitive technologies still 
controlled by the government. One of Clinton's top advisers, who witnessed 
the encounter, said his sense was that the Communist Party chief was 
saying in effect: ``There is a line. We kicked you guys out. And now 
we are going to be friendly, but there is only so far we will go.'' 
The two leaders argued, politely, over whether the United States had 
``imperialist'' intentions here. Clinton told CNN on Sunday, ``I stoutly 
disputed that we were an imperialist country'' during the war, insisting 
that the conflict had been ``over what self-determination for the 
Vietnamese people really meant.'' They were talking about days long 
past. But the subtext of the discussion was very much about today, 
about Phieu's reluctance to let Vietnam plunge into a world and a 
marketplace dominated by American power. Contrast that conversation 
with the one Clinton held Sunday afternoon with Vo Viet Thahn, the 
closest thing Ho Chi Minh City has to a mayor, who came here as a 
North Vietnamese battalion commander helping to seize Saigon in 1975. 
``It was like night and day,'' said Sandy Berger, Clinton's national 
security adviser. ``We could have been talking to any big-city mayor 
in the United States.'' Thahn talked proudly about all the private-sector 
jobs that had been created in this teeming city of motor scooters 
and smog, and how a 10 percent growth rate had brought the city's 
poverty level down. Clinton asked what the United States might do 
to help. ``Low-income housing projects,'' Thahn immediately suggested. 
That is a long way from Thahn's objective here 25 years ago, which 
was to wipe out any vestiges of American influence. Indeed, the visceral 
attraction to the United States was the big surprise of this trip, 
reminiscent of Japan's fascination with all things American after 
World War II (the difference, of course, being that the United States 
won that war.) While many Americans watching snippets of the visit 
on television were undoubtedly thinking about Clinton's effort to 
sidestep the draft, the Vietnamese saw a man who had lifted the economic 
embargo against their country, normalized diplomatic relations, and 
arrived here with a backup plane full of potential investors. ``The 
last American president we liked was Kennedy,'' said Do Thi La, a 
47-year-old shopkeeper, as she watched Clinton's motorcade speed past. 
``But Clinton may have done more good things for Vietnam.'' There 
is an inevitable tendency during trips like this to overstate American 
influence, and to assume that just because the crowds were cheering, 
the outcome of the newest Vietnam conflict is preordained. That would 
be dangerous. The debate in Vietnam closely parallels the one under 
way in China today. There, too, leaders are caught between the necessity 
of attracting global capital and the reality that openness will inevitably 
undercut their power. In both places, it is increasingly easy to find 
great restaurants, and increasingly hard to find committed Communists. 
But it is also true that hard-liners like Phieu appear to be on the 
rise in Hanoi, at least for now. For all the talk about the power 
of globalization, most of Vietnam's 78 million people cannot afford 
a telephone and have never wandered into one of Saigon's chic Internet 
cafes. So at moments the optimistic talk among Clinton's aides about 
the inevitability of economic and political reform in Vietnam seemed 
like an eerie echo of the days when Robert McNamara, Kennedy's defense 
secretary, declared that ``every quantitative measurement we have 
shows we are winning the war.'' Maybe this time, the leaders in Hanoi 
have no real choice. They don't have many dominoes to play, they don't 
have allies willing to prop them up, and to the rest of the world 
it makes far less difference whether they succeed or fail. But as 
the author Ward Just wrote in a new foreword this year to his 1967 
book, ``To What End,'' during the war ``No one knew the truth of things, 
whether the tide was in or out or where on the shore we stood.'' He 
could have been writing about Vietnam today.