President Clinton flew home from Vietnam early Monday, ending his 
historic mission by telling the communist foe of a generation past 
that Americans ``wish to be your partners.'' ``I am going home determined 
to continue the partnership we have, for a better future for the people 
of Vietnam, for the people of the United States,'' Clinton told the 
Chamber of Commerce in Ho Chi Minh City. After a week abroad, the 
president headed back to the White House still uncertain who will 
succeed him there in just two months, Vice President Al Gore, his 
candidate, or Republican George W. Bush. ``This is not a crisis in 
the American system because it will come to an end,'' he told CNN. 
``It will come to an end in plenty of time for the new president to 
take the oath of office.'' Clinton also said he doesn't think ``we 
should have all this hand-wringing, dire predictions'' that the election 
dispute over the 25 Florida electoral voters will leave the new president 
handicapped as a leader. Air Force One stopped to refuel at this base 
after Clinton spent a long day in Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, 
that had him speaking, touring and traveling more than around the 
clock. He lingered over Sunday evening dinner at an elegant restaurant 
before taking off for home. All told, his week's journey covered 22,192 
miles, 44 hours of flying. There could be at least one more foreign 
trip before the president leaves office Jan 20. He said it is conceivable 
he could still go to North Korea, a possibility ruled out on this 
Asian trip for lack of firm progress toward an agreement by the North 
to stop building and exporting long-range missiles. Clinton, ever 
the campaigner, shook hands, shopped and waved at the scene of U.S. 
surrender and withdrawal in 1975. He said his reception, by thousands 
upon thousands of Vietnamese who lined the streets of Hanoi and then 
Ho Chi Minh City, was nothing short of amazing. He called it ``a big 
welcome for America, for the United States.'' ``I think it says a 
lot about what the people of Vietnam would like their relationship 
to America to be,'' he told reporters in the sweltering sun at a container 
port in Ho Chi Minh City, where he had hailed the spirit, skills and 
ingenuity of the new Vietnam. ``Your best days clearly lie ahead,'' 
he told about 2,000 business leaders and port workers, most of them 
in white baseball-style caps against the sun, listening through translation 
headphones Sunday afternoon. ``The years of animosity are past,'' 
said Clinton, who avoided the draft to a war he said in 1969 he hated 
and detested. ``Today we have a shared interest in your well-being 
and your prosperity. We have a stake in your future and we wish to 
be your partners.'' In the noon heat of Ho Chi Minh City, the president 
strolled with daughter Chelsea along a crowded street of open-front 
shops, stopping in at a half-dozen of them, buying a memento at one. 
He paid with a $10 bill. Clinton's journey took him first to Brunei, 
for the Asia Pacific Economic Forum. Then he became the first American 
president ever to go to Hanoi, the first to visit Vietnam since the 
fall of Saigon and the withdrawal of the last U.S. forces here in 
1975. The Vietnam war cost 58,000 American lives, and an estimated 
3 million Vietnamese. Clinton saw no display of bitterness, and said 
that had not surprised him. ``I think these years that we spent working 
together on the MIA issue and on other things'' have created the foundation 
of a new friendship, he said. ``I believe that America and Vietnam 
are linked not just by a shared and often tragic past that must be 
honored and remembered, but that we have a bright future that we can 
build together to liberate our people and their potential,'' Clinton 
told the audience at the container port. One of his last meetings 
was a 10-minute encounter with the Roman Catholic archbishop of Vietnam, 
Jean Baptiste Pham Minh Man, a token of his call for religious freedom 
and human rights.