President Alberto Fujimori, who tamed Peru's leftist guerrillas but 
also bullied the country's democracy to fit his iron-fisted rule, 
is calling it quits after 10 years in office, unable to control a 
growing corruption scandal and a clamor for more freedom. Fujimori, 
on a visit to his ancestral homeland Japan, announced in a written 
statement early Monday that he would resign within 48 hours. It was 
not clear when _ or if _ he would return to Peru. Japanese officials 
said Monday that Fujimori had not requested political asylum. His 
decision took into account the fact that opposition lawmakers won 
control of Congress last week, the statement said. It did not elaborate, 
but a motion was before the 120-seat legislature to remove Fujimori 
as president on constitutional grounds of ``moral incapacity.'' Fujimori 
was initially popular for defeating the powerful Marxist Shining Path 
and Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement guerrillas _ which controlled 
much of Peru's countryside and shantytowns, and ending annual inflation 
that topped 7,000 percent when he took office in 1990. The signature 
moment of his autocratic, hands-on leadership style came in 1996 when 
he personally directed the rescue of 74 hostages held by Tupac Amaru 
rebels in the Japanese ambassador's residence in Lima. The siege ended 
with commandoes storming the building, killing all 14 rebels. But 
his popular support was eroded by lingering poverty, weariness with 
his autocratic ways and his close ties to his shadowy spymaster Vladimiro 
Montesinos, who critics charge with corruption and human rights abuses. 
Many Peruvians felt relief that Fujimori was finally leaving. ``I 
have been praying to God for Fujimori to go. He has gone but he left 
behind a country in ruins with people who are hungry, impoverished 
and without jobs,'' said Patricia Cerna Egoavil, 36, an activist with 
women's groups. Fujimori and Montesinos had controlled almost all 
aspects of Peruvian society _ from congress to the courts to television 
stations _ and his resignation has set off a power struggle to fill 
the vacuum he leaves. It was the release in September of a videotape 
apparently showing Montesinos bribing an opposition congressman that 
launched the scandal that prompted Fujimori's downfall. Fujimori's 
statement in Japan confirmed announcements made hours earlier in Peru 
by Prime Minister Federico Salas and Second Vice President Ricardo 
Marquez. Marquez said Sunday that he was ready to assume the presidency 
and lead Peru to special elections on April 8, but the issue of succession 
was already clouded by controversy. Under the constitution, the first 
vice president takes over when the president resigns. But First Vice 
President Francisco Tudela resigned after Montesinos returned to Peru 
on Oct. 23 following a failed asylum bid in Panama. Tudela, who was 
out of the country and not expected back until later in the week, 
had complained that Fujimori was not in control of Montesinos and 
his allies. ``The Constitution dictates that if the president has 
resigned, and if the first vice president has resigned, then the second 
vice president assumes the office,'' Marquez said, adding that the 
Government Palace had told him Fujimori planned to send his resignation 
by e-mail on Monday. But analysts pointed out that the legislature 
has yet to accept Tudela's resignation. Meanwhile, other opposition 
lawmakers questioned Marquez's democratic credentials. ``Marquez is 
a person linked to Fujimori's inner circle,'' said Congresswoman Milagros 
Huaman. ``We are going to ask for Marquez's resignation.'' Congress 
has no constitutional authority to expel either vice president. Legislators 
were expected to take up the issue of a Fujimori successor on Monday. 
Arriving in Madrid on Sunday on his way back to Peru, opposition leader 
Alejandro Toledo called on recently elected Congress President Valentin 
Paniagua to take over running the country and rejected calls for immediate 
elections. ``We need the most stable conditions for transition possible,'' 
Toledo told a brief news conference. ``We need time to deactivate 
the intelligence services of Montesinos.'' Paniagua, a political moderate 
who was installed last week by opposition legislators, would be constitutionally 
next in line after the first and second vice presidents. Leading opposition 
lawmakers left an emergency meeting early Monday morning saying they 
planned to reject Fujimori's resignation and instead vote to throw 
him out of office. Fujimori, 62, has seen his authoritarian rule crumble 
since the September release of the Montesinos's videotape. It prompted 
him to announce two months ago that he would step down next July after 
new elections in April. Fujimori tried to distance himself from Montesinos 
and launched a highly visible but unsuccessful manhunt for the fugitive, 
believed to be in hiding in Peru. But in the ensuing scandal, critics 
said Fujimori's disregard for democratic checks and balances provided 
fertile ground for Montesinos to create a network of alleged extortion, 
drug trafficking and arms dealing. Investigators said they discovered 
foreign bank accounts containing at least $58 million in illicit funds 
allegedly laundered by the ex-spy chief. Montesinos faces criminal 
complaints in Peru ranging from directing state-sponsored death squads 
and torture to skimming profits from the narcotics trade during his 
10 years as Fujimori's top aide. Fujimori won a third five-year term 
last May in a vote marred by irregularities and boycotted by international 
observers. His foes said Montesinos masterminded an illegal campaign 
that used intimidation, fraud and dirty tricks to ensure the win.