obviously, all of this was very welcome news in washington, where 
the clinton administration has spent a great deal of time and military 
effort trying to get rid of the man they consider to be the butcher 
of the balkans. nbc's andrea mitchell tonight on where we go from 
here. what washington has been waiting for -- a popular uprising against 
milosevic. u.s. officials say he can still cause trouble with armed 
thugs. but, they say, if he survives this time, it will be a miracle. 
the people are trying to get their country back. and we support democracy 
and the will of the serbian people. european leaders also press milosevic 
to step down peacefully. the message for milosevic is clear. "go, 
go now, go before any more lives are lost." in fact, u.s. intelligence 
believes reports that milosevic tries to declare martial law in recent 
days, and the army ignores him, his control vanishing. even his cronies 
abandoning him. i think he's lost most of the instruments of power. 
he's pulling the levers, and there's nothing at the other end of the 
lever. today a change in emphasis. u.s. officials not pressing their 
demand that milosevic be tried immediately for war crimes. the first 
priority -- get him out of power. for now, the issue is his removal 
from power. the issue is not for him to stand trial. where could he 
go? u.s. officials say possibly russia, although that country has 
said he's not welcome. or, they say, he could get "lost in china," 
even iraq. if milosevic does give up, what about the new leader, kostunica? 
u.s. officials say they can do business with him. he is a strong nationalist, 
but is also anti-communist, a democrat, a trial lawyer who opposed 
the u.s. over kosovo, but has advisers who are not anti-american. 
tonight, president clinton is calling upon russia to drop milosevic 
and endorse the opposition and promises the u.s. will lift sanctions 
against yugoslavia as soon as a democratic regime takes over. andrea 
mitchell, nbc news, at the state department.