This is The World, I am Tony Kahn. It is official, Peruvian President 
Alberto Fujimori resigned today. The man, who ruled Peru with an iron 
fist for the last ten years, faxed his resignation from Japan where 
he had been visiting. Fujimori's surprise decision to step down immediately 
is the combination of months of political intrigue in Lima. First, 
Fujimori declared himself the winner in presidential elections last 
May, then he announced there would be new elections next year and 
that he would not be a candidate. Now the beleaguered Peruvian strong 
man is calling it quits. The World's Jennifer Glass reports. Alberto 
Fujimori's latest announcement further confuses the Peruvian political 
landscape, already in turmoil. He used a constitutional loophole to 
run an election eight months ago, winning his third consecutive five-year 
term. His victory was tainted by allegations of cheating, borne out 
when a close advisor was caught on video tape, apparently bribing 
an opposition lawyer to support Fujimori. The Peruvian opposition 
leader Alejandro Toledo hailed Fujimori's decision to resign immediately. 
I believe it is the victory for the Democratic forces. It has been 
a long hard path. Democratic perseverance has prevailed. We have suffered 
a great deal and there have been moments of solitude, but we have 
arrived. And now I believe we need to have the political maturity 
to begin to build a future from today onwards. For now Fujimori remains 
in Japan, where he is entitled to residency because both his parents 
were born there. It's unclear whether he will return to Peru, but 
today the White House said Fujimori will remain in Tokyo indefinitely, 
according to the Japanese government. Martha Chavez, who has served 
in Fujimori's governing coalition since 1992, believes Fujimori will 
return because he is an asset. I have talked with him, he will be 
back in the moment that it is needed and he will continue to defend 
all what has been done in these ten years. When Fujimori was elected 
in 1990, he offered great hope for Peru. He was untainted by political 
scandal, presided over economic recovery, and stopped the guerilla 
war waged by the Marxist Shining Path group. But in recent years, 
Fujimori became increasingly autocratic and his popularity slipped 
says Colin Harding who edits the Latin American newsletter here in 
London. Any good he did has at least in part been undone. And many 
people say that if he had decided not to stand for a third successive 
term earlier this year, and had just retired into private life, he 
would have been hailed as one of the greatest Presidents the country 
has ever had. As it is he is now notorious and regarded as being somebody 
who overstayed their welcome by a long way. He just couldn't really 
quit power until it was prized from his grasp. But Harding says Fujimori 
is an astute politician, who should not be written off. He can always 
rescue something from however disastrous the situation appears to 
be, he can always rescue something from it. I wouldn't be surprised 
that in few months time he is a Senator, you know, back in Peru and 
in an influential position. At the moment it's hard to see because 
he is so disgraced and discredited. But it's not impossible and he's 
done it before, you know, watched his pace. Washington is watching 
the Peruvian situation closely. It has called for a peaceful, orderly 
and constitutional transition. A US delegation arrived in Peru today 
to meet with representatives of the government and the opposition 
in a nation seen as key to stability in Latin America. For The World, 
I am Jennifer Glass.