President Alberto Fujimori, who brought leftist insurgencies and economic 
chaos to heel but ran roughshod over Peruvian democracy, cut short 
an unprecedented third term and resigned Monday. The move set off 
an immediate scramble over who would replace him. But a Fujimori ally 
who's next in line for the post, Second Vice President Ricardo Marquez, 
announced late Monday he was stepping down. That move averted a political 
showdown with the opposition-controlled Congress and virtually guaranteed 
that Congress President Valetin Paniagua, who follows Marquez in the 
constitutional line of succession, would become Peru's next chief 
executive. Paniagua is political moderate who's aligned with the opposition. 
Fujimori, 62, formalized his resignation hours earlier with a letter 
sent from his ancestral homeland, Japan. The bespectacled son of Japanese 
immigrants, Fujimori soared into office 10 years ago in a stunning 
election upset. But with his popularity eroded by a corruption scandal 
he was unable to control, Fujimori sent the resignation letter, acknowledging 
his ``errors'' but staunchly defending his decade in power. Fujimori's 
resignation initially caught the country's leadership off guard and 
angered allies who complained he should have stepped down at home. 
``I submit to you, Mr. President of Congress, my formal resignation 
as president of the republic,'' Fujimori wrote in the two-page letter, 
a copy of which was faxed to The Associated Press by the government. 
The opposition wrested control of Congress away from Fujimori last 
week for the first time since his own 1992 ``coup,'' in which he seized 
unprecedented powers. He closed an opposition-controlled Congress, 
drafted a new constitution and took on special powers he said were 
needed to battle Marxist insurgents. In the letter, Fujimori admitted 
his support had crumbled. ``I am the first to acknowledge that there 
is a new political scenario in the nation,'' he wrote. In Japan, officials 
said Fujimori had not requested political asylum. But Mary Ellen Countryman, 
a spokeswoman for the U.S. National Security Council, said Monday 
that Peruvian officials have informed the U.S. government that Fujimori 
would stay in Japan indefinitely. Paniagua said Congress would be 
called into session Tuesday to take up the resignation. During his 
comments at a news conference, Marquez backed off an earlier pledge 
that he would take charge and guide Peru to special elections April 
8. Marquez said he now lamented the ``grave political crisis'' touched 
off by Fujimori's resignation, saying it had put ``democracy and political 
stability at risk.'' He said he had made the decision to present his 
``irrevocable resignation'' as second vice president, adding it would 
take effect once Congress chooses an interim president to guide a 
transition to elections. Peter Romero, the U.S. acting assistant secretary 
of state for western hemisphere affairs, called for an orderly transition 
after traveling here with a high-level U.S. delegation Monday. Asked 
about Fujimori's possible replacements, he cautioned, ``Our support 
is for the process and not for any particular person or party.'' Speaking 
at a news conference, he pointed to the difficult U.S. presidential 
election between Republican George Bush and Democrat Al Gore, saying 
nearly two weeks after that vote, we haven't ``identified the winner 
yet.'' ``Democracy is a process that is always fraught with problems 
and disputes, which sometimes appear insurmountable, but each time 
they're solved, democracy comes out stronger than ever,'' he added. 
Rushing home from a European trip, Peru's main opposition leader Alejandro 
Toledo credited common Peruvians with bringing down Fujimori's authoritarian 
regime. ``Let's build a government based on decent institutions, respect 
for democratic dignity. This is the dream of the Peruvian people,'' 
he said through a megaphone, mobbed by supporters at Lima's international 
airport. Fujimori's letter spoke of a ``new correlation of forces.'' 
It was an apparent reference to the fact that opposition lawmakers 
won control of Congress last week. The letter did not elaborate, but 
a motion had been placed before the 120-seat legislature to remove 
Fujimori as president on constitutional grounds of ``moral incapacity.'' 
Prior to his formal resignation letter, Fujimori had announced in 
a written statement earlier Monday that he would step down within 
48 hours. Fujimori was initially popular for defeating the powerful 
Marxist Shining Path and Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement guerrillas 
_ who controlled much of Peru's countryside and shantytowns _ and 
ending annual inflation that topped 7,000 percent when he took office 
in 1990. But his popular support was eroded by lingering poverty, 
weariness with his autocratic ways and his close ties to his shadowy 
spymaster Vladimiro Montesinos, who critics charge with corruption 
and human rights abuses. One of the defining moments of Fujimori's 
presidency came in 1997 when he personally directed the rescue of 
74 hostages held by Tupac Amaru rebels in the Japanese ambassador's 
residence in Lima. The siege ended with commandoes storming the building, 
killing all 14 rebels. Fujimori and Montesinos had controlled almost 
all aspects of Peruvian society _ from Congress to the courts to television 
stations _ and his resignation has set off a power struggle to fill 
the vacuum he leaves. It was the release in September of a videotape 
apparently showing Montesinos bribing an opposition congressman that 
launched the scandal that prompted Fujimori's downfall. It led him 
to announce two months ago that he would step down next July after 
new elections in April. Fujimori had won a third five-year term last 
May in a vote marred by irregularities and boycotted by international 
observers.