Alberto Fujimori came into the presidency as a political outsider 
and quickly became known as ``The Emperor'' for his authoritarian 
style. He moved swiftly to end the economic chaos of the 1980s and 
defeat leftist insurgencies, offering hope to Peruvians. After weeks 
of scandal, Fujimori resigned Monday, in a letter sent to Congress 
while on a visit to his ancestral homeland, Japan. Fujimori arrived 
there Friday after leaving Peru unexpectedly in the midst of a deepening 
political crisis. ``His exit from Lima had all the characteristics 
of a furtive escape from justice,'' said Mario Vargas Llosa, the Peruvian 
novelist defeated by Fujimori in the 1990 elections, speaking in a 
radio interview from Madrid. When the bespectacled mathematics professor 
took power, he faced the challenge of running a country many Peruvians 
feared had become ungovernable. Leftist rebels rattled the capital 
with nightly car bombs. Electricity was rationed. Foreign investors 
had fled the country. Prices jumped daily. Basic food items were in 
short supply. Fujimori put an end to the economic chaos and defeated 
the leftist insurgencies. But with time, Fujimori's goal seemed to 
be power itself, at any cost. And the same Peruvians who once saw 
Fujimori as a savior celebrated his ignominious exit from power. ``After 
my 2-year-old granddaughter, Fujimori's resignation is the greatest 
gift God has given me,'' said Lucia Canales, 45, who joined hundreds 
of protesters in front of the Government Palace to celebrate Monday. 
``Fujimori didn't keep his 1990 campaign slogan of Honesty, Jobs and 
Technology. He left us with corruption, unemployment and poverty.'' 
Fujimori acknowledged in an interview after his tainted re-election 
in May to a third, five-year term that his government was an ``imperfect 
democracy.'' ``I have a particular governing style that puts great 
emphasis on efficiency,'' he said. Efficiency, for Fujimori, translated 
into a disregard for the checks and balances of democracy. Fujimori 
seized dictatorial powers in April 1992, dissolving the opposition-controlled 
Congress and closing the courts _ moves supported by a majority of 
Peruvians, fed up with weak and ineffective governments. A new constitution 
was written and a new Congress elected, dominated by his supporters. 
He was re-elected in 1995 by an electorate grateful for an end to 
the guerrilla violence and inflation that topped 7,000 percent in 
1990. The son of impoverished Japanese immigrants who picked cotton 
for a living, the 62-year-old Fujimori had a common touch that appealed 
to Peru's poor. He donned Andean ponchos on his trips into the rural 
interior, more comfortable with Indian peasants than at cocktail parties. 
But his May re-election came amid rampant irregularities and allegations 
of fraud. With his support already eroded by lingering poverty, his 
popularity plummeted. David Scott Palmer, a Boston University professor 
and authority on Peruvian politics, said that if Fujimori had not 
sought a third term, ``he would have gone out as someone who had really 
made a contribution to the country.'' Over the years, Fujimori showed 
himself to be shrewd and calculating, a high-stakes gambler bent on 
winning at any cost. Fujimori's close association with his former 
spy chief Vladimiro Montesinos, finally brought him down, with the 
revelation of a scale of corruption never before seen in Peru. Montesinos 
is wanted for alleged money laundering after Swiss authorities froze 
$48 million in accounts linked to the former spymaster. The amount 
swelled to $58 million after other accounts were discovered. Few Peruvians 
believe Fujimori's assertion that he had no inkling of Montesinos' 
criminal activities, although many recall his pledge to wage a war 
on corruption when he first took office. ``I remember that one of 
the things that most worried him was corruption,'' said Hernando de 
Soto, an international economist who worked closely with Fujimori 
in the early 1990s. ``The incredible thing is that his government 
is now being stained and destroyed by the corrupt ones he employed 
to help him stay in power.''