And now a political story that spans two countries and the Pacific 
Ocean. Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori has resigned, ending a 
10-year hold on power. His resignation came in a letter to the Congress 
from Japan, where he is presently visiting and may remain. During 
his autocratic rule, Mr. Fujimori scored some successes, but also 
undermined the country's democracy. From Lima, VOA's Bill Rogers reports 
on the man vilified by some and revered by others. Born of Japanese 
immigrants 62 years ago, Mr. Fujimori was a political unknown when 
he first won the presidency in 1990. A university rector and former 
mathematics teacher, the man known to his supporters as "El Chino" 
or the "China man" inherited a bankrupt nation under siege from terrorist 
attacks by two leftist insurgencies. But it was in these two areas, 
reviving the economy and combating terrorism, that Mr. Fujimori achieved 
his greatest successes. In his first five-year term, he enacted reforms 
that ended rampant inflation and restored economic growth. With a 
beefed up intelligence service, his government also succeeded in crushing 
the two guerilla groups that had destabilized the Andean nation. Along 
the way, however, Mr. Fujimori's autocratic methods began to generate 
criticism, beginning with his 1992 decision to temporarily dissolve 
the congress and the courts as a means to combat terrorism. These 
institutions were reinstated under a revised constitution, but the 
damage to Mr. Fujimori's democratic credentials had been done. At 
the same time, there was growing concern over the activities of his 
intelligence service lead by his shadowy security advisor Vladimiro 
Montesinos. Under Mr. Montesinos, intelligence agents began undermining 
the Peruvian leaders political rivals and manipulating the press. 
Some in the opposition accused Mr. Fujimori of becoming a dictator. 
British author Sally Bowen who has written a book about the Fujimori 
government, does not dispute this, but said in a recent interview 
Mr. Fujimori was a new kind of dictator. I hate to go quite so far 
that he is dictator, but he is certainly not a democrat. Here they 
use the expression 'adiksa blanda' instead of 'adiksa dooda', so changing 
the words dooda hard for blanda soft. So, it's like it's sort of a 
soft dictatorship. But it was Mr. Fujimori's manipulation of the congress 
to obtain approval for seeking a third term that began to generate 
the growing discontent that set the stage for what became a controversial 
election. Mr. Fujimori won re-election in May, and a vote marred by 
irregularities, boycotted by the opposition, and condemned by the 
international community. But despite the disapproval and constant 
protests, it looked like El Chino would some how manage to serve out 
his controversial third five year term. But in mid September, a political 
uproar over a bribery scandal involving Security Chief Montesinos 
forced Mr. Fujimori to fire his trusted aide and call new elections 
in which he would not run. His announcement stunned the country and 
lead to speculation about how much he might have known about the activities 
of his disgraced spy chief. Author Sally Bowen believes Mr. Fujimori 
did know quite a bit, and felt he had no choice but to cut short his 
term. It's clear that he had known all these years, most if not all 
of what the intelligence service had been up to. I think, the Japanese 
side comes out in the sense that when it becomes public, when you 
can't paper over the cracks anymore, when you can't barefacedly deny 
it any longer, your honor is blown as it were, I suppose the Japanese 
Samurai would run on his sword and commit hara-kiri, and I mean in 
the sense that's what Fujimori has done politically. But Mr. Fujimori's 
hopes of remaining in office until handing over power to an elected 
successor next July, faded fast as the political opposition gained 
increasing strength. His power incredibility weakened when Mr. Montesinos 
return to Peru in October after failing to obtain political asylum 
in Panama. Mr. Fujimori personally lead the manhunt to capture Mr. 
Montesinos, but his efforts failed and the ex spy chief's whereabouts 
are still unknown. Mr. Fujimori's days were numbered when the opposition 
gained control of the congress last week, and sponsored a resolution 
to depose the Peruvian leader for moral incapacity. Mr. Fujimori then 
left Lima for a trip to Asia and announced his decision to resign, 
from Japan. Again Mr. Fujimori surprised his countrymen, but the move 
also created indignation even among his closest allies who say he 
should have returned to Peru to make the announcement. The government's 
Human Rights ombudsman, Horsches Santi Stevan is among those who believes 
Mr. Fujimori should not have resigned from abroad. He said Mr. Fujimori 
is being criticized for not resigning, but for the way he resigned, 
because it gives the impression he has something to hide by not returning 
to Peru. In a statement Monday, Mr. Fujimori acknowledged his decision 
was based on an assessment of the new configuration of political forces 
in his nation. But he said he is not leaving the presidency to satisfy 
the demands of any particular person that he resigned, saying instead, 
he took the decision for the good of the country. Bill Rogers, VOA 
News, Lima.