The Vice President of Peru, Ricardo Marquez has resigned. That move 
could help resolve the political crisis that followed after President 
Alberto Fujimori stepped down on Monday. VOA's Bill Rogers reports 
from Lima. Mr. Marquez made the announcement late Monday, after many 
of Peru's political leaders made it clear they did not want the Vice 
President to head a transition government because of his association 
with Mr. Fujimori. Lacking political support, Mr. Marquez told the 
nation he is stepping down for the good of the country. His decision 
paves the way for the Head of the Congress, Valentine Paneagua, to 
assume the presidency left vacant by Mr. Fujimori's resignation. Mr. 
Paneagua, an opposition lawmaker, was elected Speaker last week replacing 
a long time political ally of the ex-President. That action was seen 
as further undermining Mr. Fujimori's hold on power, which had been 
crumbling since September in the wake of a bribery scandal that forced 
the Peruvian leader to call new elections. While in Japan this past 
weekend, Mr. Fujimori resigned, bringing an end to 10 years of autocratic 
rule. Monday's developments came as a top US delegation met in Lima 
with political leaders including Vice President Marquez. Delegation 
head Peter Romero later told reporters, Washington is supporting a 
constitutional transfer of power in Peru and is not trying to influence 
the outcome. Mr. Romero, who is the acting US Assistant Secretary 
of State for Inter-American Affairs, said it is up to the Peruvian 
Congress and people to determine the nation's future. However, the 
timing of the visit raised some questions, coming as it did one day 
after Mr. Fujimori's decision to resign became public. But delegation 
members said the trip had been planned for weeks so that US officials 
can meet with Peruvian political leaders to discuss the progress being 
made in preparing for next year's elections. Artudo Velensuela, who 
is a Latin American expert at the US National Security Council, told 
reporters Monday, despite the latest crisis he believes Peru is now 
on the right track. I think that what you have in play here is a situation 
where as Peru moves towards a democratic and free election, a transparent 
election, that this will make it possible for Peruvians to make their 
choices and to have authorities that are legitimate. There is a long 
way to go because it requires a significant process of institutionalization, 
of political reforms, of strengthening of parties and institutions, 
but nevertheless Peru, I think, is on the right track. Whoever is 
chosen to replace Mr. Fujimori as President, will preside over a transition 
government that will organize the new elections which is scheduled 
for next April. Mr. Fujimori was elected to a third five-year term 
this past May in a vote marred by irregularities and boycotted by 
the opposition. Peru's opposition leaders are demanding that reforms 
be made to ensure the next elections are free and fair so that the 
newly elected government that takes office next July will be seen 
as legitimate. Bill Rogers, VOA News, Lima.