A disgraced President Alberto Fujimori said Tuesday that he would 
stay in Japan ``for a long time,'' while the leader of Peru's opposition-controlled 
Congress emerged as his likely successor. After Fujimori's resignation, 
two of his former allies in line to succeed him stepped aside. That 
opened the way Tuesday for Valentin Paniagua, a political moderate 
aligned with the opposition, to become interim president until a new 
president is sworn in July 28 after April elections. While many Peruvians 
celebrated at home, Fujimori said he was talking to Japan's Foreign 
Ministry about staying in his ancestral homeland, though he said he 
was not seeking political asylum. ``I want to go back (to Peru) someday, 
but I don't know when,'' Fujimori said Tuesday at a news conference 
at the Tokyo hotel where he has been holed up. ``I should be here 
for a long time.'' Fujimori, 62, the Peruvian-born son of Japanese 
immigrants, had little to say about why he had resigned, saying the 
reasons would be made public someday. But he insisted his decision 
to stay in Japan had ``nothing to do with the scandal'' that led to 
the collapse of his rule. He also denied having bank accounts abroad 
_ apparently referring to suspicions he was connected to the millions 
of dollars his former spymaster, Vladimiro Montesinos, allegedly stole 
from state coffers. Fujimori soared into office 10 years ago in a 
stunning election upset. He subdued leftist insurgencies and brought 
economic chaos to heel while imposing an authoritarian rule. His popularity 
in his third term was eroded by corruption scandals surrounding Montesinos. 
After he submitted his resignation Monday, Fujimori's jubilant foes 
cavorted in public fountains or raised signs declaring: ``The people 
have triumphed, the dictatorship has fallen!'' Congress on Tuesday 
voted to accept the resignation of First Vice President Francisco 
Tudela, removing him from the line of succession and opening the way 
for a vote, expected later in the day, to confirm Paniagua as interim 
president. Second Vice President Ricardo Marquez _ who would be next 
in line under the constitution _ resigned several hours after Fujimori, 
in a bitter statement following opposition pressure. ``Thinking of 
Peru, and finding myself with dignity in the country where I will 
remain, I have made the decision to present my irrevocable resignation,'' 
he said Monday night. Tudela had submitted his resignation Oct. 23 
in a protest amid the Montesinos affair, but Congress had not yet 
formally accepted it. At the Congress session Tuesday, Tudela told 
lawmakers he was not interested in serving as interim president or 
running in the special April 8 presidential vote as many had expected 
he would. ``Paniagua has my vote,'' he said. ``I am not interested 
in the presidency of the Republic, nor do I suffer from presidential 
fever.'' Congress then voted to accept his resignation. Peter Romero, 
U.S. acting assistant secretary of state for western hemisphere affairs, 
called for an orderly transition after traveling here with a high-level 
U.S. delegation Monday. ``Our support is for the process and not for 
any particular person or party,'' he said. It was Montesinos' mid-September 
appearance in a videotape leaked to the media apparently bribing a 
newly elected opposition congressman that prompted Fujimori to announce 
he would step down next July after new elections. In the ensuing scandal, 
Fujimori _ who won a questionable third five-year term in May, marred 
by irregularities and fraud allegations _ could not hang on through 
the transition. ``I have again asked myself about my presence and 
participation in this transition process and I have come to the conclusion 
that I should formally resign,'' he wrote in his resignation letter 
Monday. Lingering poverty, weariness with his autocratic ways and 
his inability to convince Peruvians that he was knew nothing about 
Montesinos' reputedly vast network of corruption _ including alleged 
money laundering, narcotics trafficking and arms dealing _ caught 
up with Fujimori. ``Let us build a government based on decent institutions, 
respect for democratic dignity. This is the dream of the Peruvian 
people,'' said main opposition leader Alejandro Toledo. Opposition 
lawmakers gained control of Peru's legislature last week for the first 
time in eight years after Paniagua was successfully voted Congress 
president. Some said they planned to reject Fujimori's resignation 
and argue to vote him out of office on constitutional grounds of ``moral 
incapacity.'' Fujimori had traveled to Japan several times during 
his presidency and has close ties with the Tokyo government. His son, 
Hiro, lives in Japan, as do his sister and brother-in-law, who is 
Peru's ambassador to Tokyo. But Fujimori is not a Japanese citizen. 
According to Japanese immigration lawyer Naoya Wada, children who 
are born abroad to Japanese parents retain the right to citizenship 
automatically only until they turn 22. But Fujimori would likely get 
favorable treatment if he chose to apply for naturalization, Wada 
said.