Peruvians are experiencing a problem we Americans can relate to, they 
are still wondering who the country's next President is going to be. 
The congress in Lima met today to consider the resignation of Alberto 
Fujimori who ruled the country with an iron hand for ten years, and 
to pick a successor. Fujimori sent his resignation from Japan where 
today he told reporters he intends to become an average citizen, but 
in Peru Fujimori's actions have sparked outrage according to Andrike 
Selery, editor of the weekly news magazine, 'Karitas'. The facts of 
Fujimori resigned from Japan has created considerable indignation. 
And the options and the debates in congress have been whether to accept 
the resignation or to sort of kick him out, you know, and to clear 
the vacancy for moral reasons. Our constitution establishes that procedure 
also. And this has been basically the debate which is still not absolutely 
settled. Alberto Fujimori issued a statement today from Japan, why 
don't we listen to it right now. He basically said that after his 
resignation, he would become an ordinary citizen in Japan. From the 
moment when I am no longer President, I shall be an ordinary, everyday 
citizen. I don't know yet of what status, but I am here in Japan with 
a diplomatic visa and a diplomatic passport. Has there been a response 
to that statement as yet in Peru? Well, the fact that he suggests, 
you know, that he could be an ordinary citizen in Japan accentuates 
this feeling, you know, that has been part of the whole Fujimori phenomenon. 
It was this ethnic phenomenon, in which Fujimori being first generation 
Peruvian, suddenly became President in a country that has a rather 
remote relationship with Japan. And again there was an element there 
in which the population of Peru which is mostly somehow chose Fujimori 
to defeat, let's say what we would call a sort of a white elite which 
is not absolutely white in a country like Peru. But there was always 
this question, you know, of whether Fujimori's allegiances were totally 
in this country. And now we have the terrible situation in which he 
suddenly seeks asylum, you see, is not formally asylum but he seems 
to sort of hide in the mother country, you know. And this has produced 
a tremendous shock and indignation at this point in Peru. We don't 
know if Fujimori is going to be seeking asylum in Japan, but are Peruvians 
looking now at his legacy? I mean have they done a "postmortem" on 
him? Are they looking at him as a figure of Peru's past? Fujimori 
came in when a change in economic policy occurred all over Latin America 
you know. Fiscal discipline, it's a fight against inflation, Fujimori 
put the house in order. But on the other hand, he constantly played 
down and tried to destroy the political parties. He discredited his 
predecessors, I mean throughout the Republic sort of thing and he 
was very, very sort of cruel, you know, and he persecuted people. 
And there were a lot of scandals before this last event, which the 
government never investigated. This was basically all sparked when 
the former spy chief Vladimir Montesseno, Fujimori's right hand man 
was trying to apparently bribe a congressman and he was caught on 
videotape. He then left Peru. He has apparently come back now. Do 
we know his whereabouts in what has come to be a very strange situation? 
Yes, very, very strange situation. No, we don't, and something happened 
between him and Fujimori, which is still not clear and then he became 
a fugitive. And the President himself , you know, of policeman and 
dogs, I mean you could see the TV shots of this very extraordinary 
situation with the Head of State chasing a fugitive, to catch him. 
And in fact the suspicion is to find what he had with him because 
one feels that Montesseno might have been blackmailing the President 
himself saying look, you know, be careful with me because I've got 
videos or documents that can be damaging to yourself, you know. So 
this has been the whole extraordinary situation. Andrike Selery is 
the editor of the Peruvian weekly newspaper 'Karitas' speaking to 
us from Lima, Peru. Thank you very much Andrike. Thank you.