Congress cleared the way Tuesday for its leader, Valentin Paniagua, 
to succeed Alberto K. Fujimori as president of Peru, vaulting the 
political opposition to the threshold of power for the first time 
in more than a decade. It also prepared to vote on whether to accept 
Fujimori's resignation, submitted earlier this week. Fujimori, his 
administration upset by corruption scandals in recent months, told 
reporters in Tokyo on Tuesday that he did not expect to return to 
Peru ``for a long time.'' In the congressional chamber, with its elegant 
mahogany balconies, grand arches and huge stained-glass ceiling celebrating 
republican rule, it was a day of catcalls, boos and emotional speeches. 
But by Tuesday night the last vestiges of Fujimori's presidency had 
crumbled and there were some signs that the often fractious political 
establishment would try to come together to hold new presidential 
and congressional elections next April. Paniagua, the soft-spoken 
leader of a small centrist party, seemed unlikely to emerge as anything 
more than a caretaker president to administer the state until a popularly 
elected president is inaugurated next July 28. But his sudden rise 
to replace South America's most authoritarian leader in the next day 
or so without a bullet being fired marked a new democratic opportunity 
for a country that has seen far more military coups than successful 
civilian governments. The 64-year-old Paniagua came to work Tuesday 
in a gray suit, gray shirt and gray tie, as if to signal that he had 
no interest in stealing the spotlight from more prominent politicians 
who will be competing for a full presidential term in the coming months. 
As president of the Congress, a post he assumed only a week ago, he 
banged his gavel with equanimity, ensuring that members of Fujimori's 
party had equal time to speak on the floor. One day after Fujimori 
tendered his resignation in a letter faxed from Tokyo, members of 
Congress debated throughout the day whether to accept it or to remove 
him from office forcibly for ``moral incapacity,'' a move that would 
open the way for an investigation and possible prosecution. Either 
way, under Peru's constitution, Fujimori's formal departure, after 
the resignations of his two vice presidents, places Paniagua next 
in line to become president. The vote on Fujimori was expected during 
the night, and Paniagua was expected to be sworn in on Wednesday, 
congressional leaders said. ``This authoritarian system ends today,'' 
Manuel Masias Oyanguren of the centrist Somos Peru party told his 
congressional colleagues. ``Now is the time for dialogue and consensus 
and a new form of respectful politics.'' Paniagua's emergence as a 
transitional leader marks at least a pause in six months of political 
turbulence set off by elections last April and May that were roundly 
criticized by international observers as tainted by dirty campaign 
tricks and vote fraud. Within two months of his inauguration to a 
third five-year term, Fujimori was besieged by a series of scandals 
involving his intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. An experienced 
political juggler who had survived at least one attempted coup, two 
terrorist rebellions and a war with Ecuador, even Fujimori could not 
manage to keep his government from unraveling once a videotape was 
broadcast two months ago showing Montesinos bribing an opposition 
legislator to switch parties. The broadcast of the tape prompted Fujimori 
to call new presidential elections and Montesinos fled to Panama in 
an unsuccessful bid for political asylum. Last month Montesinos returned 
to Peru, setting off a Keystone Cops-style manhunt led by Fujimori 
himself. Montesinos remains at large, although there is growing speculation 
that he has either fled Peru or been killed by former allies afraid 
he could implicate them in drug dealing or money laundering. Tuesday 
morning's newspaper headlines were already heralding Paniagua as the 
new president. The only thing standing in his way was a declaration 
by First Vice President Francisco Tudela, whose resignation last month 
had not yet been formally accepted by Congress, that he would be ready 
to serve as president if Congress wished. But without debate, Congress 
voted 103-3 Tuesday to accept Tudela's resignation, eliminating him 
from the running. Because Second Vice President Ricardo Marquez had 
resigned on Monday, that left Paniagua next in line to succeed Fujimori. 
As Peruvian television broadcast the congressional proceedings Tuesday, 
legislators debated the Fujimori legacy. In recent days, many of Fujimori's 
allies in the Congress had quit his coalition. Many remained silent, 
angry that he had left the country for an Asia-Pacific summit meeting 
in Brunei only to resign during what was supposed to be just a stopover 
in Japan on his return without giving his cabinet more than a few 
hours notice. But a few legislators reviewed his accomplishments _ 
the defeat of two brutal terrorist groups, the negotiation of peace 
with Ecuador, the building of roads and schools in the far reaches 
of the Andean highlands _ as those of a man who would be remembered 
favorably by historians. ``Let's not seek revenge,'' said Manuel Vara 
Ochoa of the Peru 2000 party. ``He was not a criminal. He traveled 
to the poorest villages to serve the neediest and now he has recognized 
his errors.'' Many more opposition party members went on the attack, 
accusing Fujimori and his government of various acts of corruption, 
gunrunning, torture, manipulation of the courts and running death 
squads. ``He broke the morality of the country,'' said Daniel Estrada 
Perez of the Union por El Peru, a center-left party. ``He needs to 
explain how he could ally himself with a criminal like Montesinos. 
It is time to recover our ethics.''