The New York Times said in an editorial for Wednesday, Nov. 22: Alberto 
Fujimori, the unpredictable and often erratic president of Peru, resigned 
from office this week while on a visit to Japan. It was a fittingly 
bizarre exit. The circumstances surrounding Fujimori's decision remain 
somewhat mysterious, but should not obscure the fact that his departure 
is a positive development. Peru's citizenry and opposition parties, 
as well as the international community, should capitalize on this 
opportunity to encourage the start of a new democratic era in Peru. 
Valentin Paniagua, a Fujimori opponent and president of Peru's Congress, 
is poised to assume the nation's presidency until the elections scheduled 
for April. His caretaker government ought to focus on creating the 
conditions for a truly free election, conditions that were woefully 
absent in last summer's contest presided over by Fujimori. Peru must 
establish an autonomous electoral authority to oversee the process, 
grant its judiciary independence and provide competing political factions 
with equal access to the nation's media. More broadly, the new government 
ought to restore a sense of stability and certainty to Peruvian life. 
The nation's 27 million people and fragile economy have been held 
hostage to the whims of Fujimori and his shadowy intelligence chief 
and indispensable aide, Vladimiro Montesinos. The new government must 
also pursue investigations into the alleged criminal activities of 
Montesinos, who reportedly squirreled away at least $58 million in 
overseas bank accounts and is now believed to be in hiding in Peru. 
Peruvians living in poverty _ more than half the population _ were 
the real victims of Fujimori's determination to retain power at all 
costs. The economy shrank in September as a result of the furor following 
the broadcast of a video that showed Montesinos paying a bribe to 
a politician. Fujimori was once the darling of foreign investors, 
but as his administration became increasingly arbitrary, tax collection 
rates plummeted, capital fled the country and prospective investment 
dried up. If a new government carries out meaningful reforms and can 
restore a sense of social stability, Peru has an opportunity to start 
making up lost economic ground. Not long ago, Washington would have 
greeted Fujimori's departure with mixed feelings because of his support 
for drug interdiction programs. Montesinos had longstanding ties to 
the CIA. But in recent months Washington wisely distanced itself from 
both men. The United States should now welcome the formation of a 
more legitimate caretaker government and offer its assistance to assure 
that new elections are free and fair.