An outraged opposition in Congress pushed Tuesday to dismiss President 
Alberto Fujimori, calling on colleagues to reject his resignation 
and instead declare him morally unfit for office. Falling into disgrace 
since his flight last week for Japan, Fujimori said in Tokyo that 
he planned to stay in his ancestral homeland ``for a long time.'' 
As the debate raged Tuesday, Congress President Valentin Paniagua, 
a political moderate with opposition backing, emerged as the likely 
successor to Fujimori. His appointment was expected to ease the political 
turmoil set off by a corruption scandal. Fujimori submitted his resignation 
in a letter sent Monday from Japan. ``The president acknowledges in 
his letter that he committed errors, but he is not a criminal!'' shouted 
congressman Manuel Vara Ochoa, a Fujimori loyalist. ``The president 
... tirelessly traveled to the most far-flung communities of the country, 
and those communities _ we should acknowledge _ continue to love the 
president.'' Most of the lawmakers attacked Fujimori for his conduct. 
Congress was not contemplating impeachment, a more complex and time 
consuming process. But Peru's constitution allows lawmakers to dismiss 
the president for ``moral incapacity'' with a simple majority of the 
120-member Congress. A vote was expected later Tuesday. Fujimori, 
known as ``The Emperor'' for his bulldozer style of government, has 
even lost the support of some members of his own congressional coalition 
over his decision to leave the country. ``The country has to say 'enough!' 
We have to say, here there is clearly moral incapacity and lies,'' 
said opposition congressman Henry Pease. ``We have struggled against 
Fujimori for 10 years. We know his successes, but I have to declare 
as morally unfit someone who lies to the country, who doesn't dare 
show his face.'' Opposition lawmakers gained control of Peru's legislature 
last week for the first time in eight years when Paniagua was successfully 
voted Congress president. Paniagua, 63, was virtually guaranteed to 
succeed Fujimori because both of Peru's vice presidents had offered 
their resignations. Under the constitution, the head of Congress is 
third in line to succeed a president. Fujimori apologized for the 
``confusion'' he caused by his resignation, but had little to say 
about why he decided to step down. ``I want to go back (to Peru) someday, 
but I don't know when,'' Fujimori told reporters at the Tokyo hotel 
where he has been holed up. He insisted his decision to stay in Japan 
had ``nothing to do with the scandal'' that led to the collapse of 
his rule. The 62-year-old Fujimori, who had declared a war on corruption 
when he took office in 1990, also denied having bank accounts abroad. 
He apparently was referring to suspicions he was connected to the 
millions of dollars his former spymaster, Vladimiro Montesinos, allegedly 
acquired through money laundering and other illicit activities. Fujimori 
swept into office 10 years ago in a stunning election upset. A son 
of Japanese immigrants, he brought a can-do philosophy to the presidency, 
winning high marks as he defeated leftist insurgencies, eliminated 
7,000 percent inflation, brought electricity and water to dirt-poor 
villages and achieved peace after a brief 1995 border war with Ecuador. 
But lingering poverty, weariness with his autocratic ways and his 
inability to persuade Peruvians that he knew nothing about Montesinos' 
reputedly vast network of corruption _ including alleged money laundering, 
narcotics trafficking and arms dealing _ finally brought him down.