Outraged lawmakers dismissed President Alberto Fujimori in a raucous 
session of Congress late Tuesday night, refusing to accept his resignation 
and declaring him morally unfit for office. Though a political humiliation 
for the once-powerful leader, the move did nothing to alter the course 
of presidential succession with Congress President Valentin Paniagua, 
a political moderate with opposition backing, still expected to replace 
Fujimori. Paniagua's appointment was expected to ease the political 
turmoil set off by a corruption scandal that hastened Fujimori's departure. 
After more than 12 hours of debate, lawmakers voted 62 to nine, with 
nine abstentions to oust Fujimori on grounds of ``moral incapacity'' 
as permitted by Peru's constitution. The result in the 120-seat Congress 
capped an emotional debate in which Fujimori loyalists walked out 
en masse moments before the vote began. ``The dictatorship has fallen!'' 
Fujimori critics chanted in Congress, unfurling the red-and-white 
Peruvian flag from a balcony above the chamber soon after the vote 
total flashed. Falling into disgrace since his flight last week for 
Japan, Fujimori said in Tokyo that he planned to stay in his ancestral 
homeland ``for a long time.'' Fujimori submitted his resignation in 
a letter sent Monday from Japan. ``The president acknowledges in his 
letter that he committed errors, but he is not a criminal!'' shouted 
congressman Manuel Vara Ochoa, a Fujimori loyalist, during the lengthy 
debate. ``The president ... tirelessly traveled to the most far-flung 
communities of the country, and those communities _ we should acknowledge 
_ continue to love the president.'' Most of the lawmakers attacked 
Fujimori for his conduct. Congress did not contemplate impeachment, 
a more complex and time consuming process. But Peru's constitution 
allowed lawmakers to dismiss the president for ``moral incapacity. 
Fujimori, known as ``The Emperor'' for his bulldozer style of government, 
has even lost the support of some members of his own congressional 
coalition over his decision to leave the country. ``The country has 
to say 'enough!' We have to say, here there is clearly moral incapacity 
and lies,'' said opposition congressman Henry Pease. ``We have struggled 
against Fujimori for 10 years. We know his successes, but I have to 
declare as morally unfit someone who lies to the country, who doesn't 
dare show his face.'' Opposition lawmakers gained control of Peru's 
legislature last week for the first time in eight years when Paniagua 
was successfully voted Congress president. Paniagua, 64, was virtually 
guaranteed to succeed Fujimori because both of Peru's vice presidents 
had offered their resignations. Under the constitution, the head of 
Congress is third in line to succeed a president. Fujimori apologized 
for the ``confusion'' he caused by his resignation, but had little 
to say about why he decided to step down. ``I want to go back (to 
Peru) someday, but I don't know when,'' Fujimori told reporters at 
the Tokyo hotel where he has been holed up. He insisted his decision 
to stay in Japan had ``nothing to do with the scandal'' that led to 
the collapse of his rule. The 62-year-old Fujimori, who had declared 
a war on corruption when he took office in 1990, also denied having 
bank accounts abroad. He apparently was referring to suspicions he 
was connected to the millions of dollars his former spymaster, Vladimiro 
Montesinos, allegedly acquired through money laundering and other 
illicit activities. Fujimori swept into office 10 years ago in a stunning 
election upset. A son of Japanese immigrants, he brought a can-do 
philosophy to the presidency, winning high marks as he defeated leftist 
insurgencies, eliminated 7,000 percent inflation, brought electricity 
and water to dirt-poor villages and achieved peace after a brief 1995 
border war with Ecuador. But lingering poverty, weariness with his 
autocratic ways and his inability to persuade Peruvians that he knew 
nothing about Montesinos' reputedly vast network of corruption _ including 
alleged money laundering, narcotics trafficking and arms dealing _ 
finally brought him down.