JERUSALEM (AP) _ U.S. Secretary of Defense William Cohen carried a 
message to Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak on Wednesday that it's 
time to end the violence with Palestinians and get back to the bargaining 
table, Before beginning a private meeting with Cohen, the prime minister 
thanked the United States for its ``long-term support for the cause 
of peace and stability'' in the Middle East and for Israel. Cohen 
responded that he has been meeting with leaders of the Arab world 
and ``I think all concerned want a secure and lasting peace.'' ``There's 
a general concern that the violence can spin out of control and we 
have to get to bargaining and the negotiating table,'' said Cohen. 
He added that Clinton, in his remaining days in office, has vowed 
to devote ``all of his energy and support'' to getting the Israelis 
and the Palestinians back to the negotiating table. ``The United States 
remains committed to the peace process,'' he said. Cohen was returning 
to the United States after his meeting with Barak. Barak said U.S. 
support has made ``a strong, self-confident Israel that can stand 
here and as a result of being strong enough, be able to be restrained 
at the same time.'' He thanked Cohen in particular for support Israel 
missile defense system intended to protect the country's northern 
region. Cohen flew directly to Israel after meeting in Cario earlier 
Wednesday with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and reporting that 
Egypt would consider returning its ambassador to Israel if the violence 
stops between the Palestinians and Israelis. Even as Cohen was meeting 
with Mubarak, then Barak, violence continued in the region. Four Palestinians 
were killed by Israeli troops near a Jewish settlement, with each 
side blaming the other for provoking a confrontation. Cohen said Mubarak 
told him Egypt wants to remain part of the peace process, but that 
he needs time to consult with the ambassador. ``He indicated that 
he needed to call him back for consultations and that the period has 
not set when he would go back,'' said Cohen. ``The conditions had 
to be such that he could return. He hoped that could take place in 
the future, but there has to be a cessation of the violence.'' The 
Egyptian president recalled his ambassador from Tel Aviv earlier this 
week for an unspecified period of consultation in Cairo. The ambassador, 
Mohammed Bassiouny, left the Egyptian Embassy in Tel Aviv on Wednesday 
morning, saying farewell to the staff, and then headed to the Israeli-Egyptian 
border by car, embassy officials said. Cohen said Mubarak told him 
``he hopes the message could be very clear that both sides have to 
stop the riots'' and that he hoped the ambassador could return ``as 
soon as possible,'' but emphasized that that the violence must cease 
before that happens. ``He was willing to continue his efforts'' to 
work for peace, but is worried that violence could spread around the 
Middle East, Cohen said. ``He believes it is imperative that both 
side stop the violence and that they have to get back to the bargaining 
table,'' Cohen said. Interviewed Tuesday by the Egyptian television 
show ``Good Morning Egypt,'' Cohen said that, notwithstanding the 
concerns of Arab countries, the United States has a balanced policy 
that seeks to stop the violence on both sides. Cohen, on a tour of 
the Middle East and Persian Gulf, was responding to a question on 
whether the United States believes that Israeli lives are more important 
than Palestinian and whether the United States is more conscious in 
warning Israel to stop the violence. ``All lives are precious in the 
eyes of the United States,'' Cohen said. ``We want to stop the violence 
on both sides.'' ``We want a just and lasting and fair peace. We want 
to see the killing stopped on both sides.'' Cohen said Israel is a 
``strong country that needs to be strong for its own security,'' but 
noted that the United States also provides Egypt with some $1.3 billion 
in military assistance each year and the Clinton administration has 
proposed $225 million in additional funds in a supplemental appropriations 
bill. ``Egypt has been a very strong partner for peace,'' Cohen said. 
Cohen, asked whether he would accept another Cabinet position no matter 
who wins the presidency, said he would not but instead wants to complete 
a novel on international intrigue that he began writing six years 
ago. Meanwhile, Pentagon chief spokesman Kevin Bacon, said the USS 
Hawes, a fast frigate, will be passing through the Suez Canal, the 
first U.S. warship to go through the waterway since the Oct. 12 bombing 
of the USS Cole in Yemen.