Veteran legislator Valentin Paniagua was sworn in Wednesday as interim 
president of Peru, ending a decade of authoritarian rule by Alberto 
Fujimori that succeeded in defeating two terrorist rebellions but 
failed to repair the country's endemic instability. ``One era closes 
and another opens today in Peru,'' Paniagua, 64, told a packed congressional 
chamber after he took the oath of office. ``The reinstitution of democracy 
is our task.'' Paniagua's inauguration, the morning after the opposition-led 
Congress voted Fujimori ``morally unfit'' to hold office, followed 
six months of extreme turmoil, during which Fujimori struggled to 
hold on to power through corruption scandals, riots and a small military 
rebellion. Earlier this week, Fujimori submitted his resignation in 
a fax sent from Tokyo _ only to have Congress reject it in favor of 
dismissing him. This left the untested Paniagua, next in the line 
of succession as parliamentary speaker, to reunite Peru and oversee 
a new presidential election next April. Under Peruvian law, Paniagua 
cannot run in that election. But several contenders have already come 
forward, notably Alejandro Toledo, the opposition leader who made 
a strong run against Fujimori in the last election and remains the 
country's most influential politician. As his first act as president 
on Wednesday, Paniagua announced that Javier Perez de Cuellar, the 
former U.N. secretary-general who lost the 1995 presidential election 
to Fujimori, would lead his coalition Cabinet as prime minister. In 
Paris, where he has lived since 1995, Perez de Cuellar expressed surprise 
at his appointment, but said he would return to Peru on Thursday. 
Wednesday's inauguration ceremony was modest but festive. Cadets in 
bright red and blue uniforms rode on horseback through the streets 
of downtown Lima, just as they had only four months ago during Fujimori's 
third inauguration, carrying spears graced by small Peruvian flags. 
As Paniagua left the Congress on his way to the presidential palace, 
he waded into small, enthusiastic crowds and blew kisses. When Paniagua 
began addressing the people from a balcony of the palace, he was met 
by chants of ``Justice for Fujimori.'' But Paniagua, by all accounts 
a shy, judicious man, did not answer. He chose to strike a tone of 
reconciliation instead, saying, ``Permit me to say to the people of 
Peru, you can be sure that no Peruvian has an enemy in the palace.'' 
Having been elected president of Congress only last week, and rising 
to presidential successor only after the resignations of Fujimori's 
two vice presidents, Paniagua has had little time to organize a transitional 
government. With only five months until new elections are scheduled, 
the former justice minister's first task will be to overhaul an electoral 
apparatus that was tainted by charges of vote fraud in the elections 
of last April and May. But he will also be faced with the task of 
reviving a stalled economy and overhauling a corrupt security apparatus. 
Coordinating a fractious coalition government could be made all the 
more difficult by the shadow that Vladimiro Montesinos, Fujimori's 
former intelligence chief, still casts over the country. Montesinos' 
intelligence agency was formally disbanded by Fujimori in his last 
months in office, but most of its officials and functions were transferred 
to the army _ many of whose top officers remain allied with Montesinos 
even as he remained in hiding over the last month. Francisco Loayza, 
a former intelligence official, said he thought Montesinos was now 
hiding in Paraguay but that he continued to have ``80 to 85 percent 
of the influence he had before as long as he has all the documents 
and videos in his collection.'' A senior Clinton administration official 
estimated that ``there is a 50-50 chance Montesinos is still in Peru.'' 
Paniagua will also have to decide how strongly he will push investigations 
of Montesinos and Fujimori, who has said he plans to stay in Japan 
for now. Both men face various accusations including money-laundering, 
gun-running and torture. Such inquiries could touch officials who 
still have powerful positions in the armed forces and the government 
bureaucracy, and whose services will be needed by the new government. 
In his inaugural address, Paniagua pointedly promised that he will 
order the investigation into where about $9 billion in government 
proceeds from a decade of privatizations have gone. ``It's a beautiful 
day, but I would not say we don't face fierce storms,'' said Alfonso 
Grados, a former legislator from Paniagua's Popular Action party. 
``We need to get started immediately to hold a free, clean election 
which has never been done before in Peru.'' Paniagua comes to power 
at a time when the Peruvian economy is slowing rapidly, with interest 
rates rising and foreign and domestic investment braking due to the 
political chaos. The government deficit ballooned in recent months 
to almost 3 percent of gross domestic product this year, and international 
creditors are pressuring the government to cut spending in order to 
reduce the deficit to 1.5 percent of gross domestic product. Handling 
the economy will be all the more difficult for Paniagua because the 
coalition he leads has vastly different views on how to handle privatization, 
public spending and foreign debt. Several of the parties represented 
in the new government have long histories of corruption. Paniagua, 
whose small centrist party has not held the presidency since 1985, 
was chosen last week to lead the Congress by the leaders of several 
parties precisely because he was viewed as a conciliator. But these 
uncertainties did not stop the opposition parties from celebrating. 
Wednesday morning, after the Congress cleared the way for Paniagua's 
succession to the presidency, scores of opposition legislators stood 
up to applaud and embrace each other. ``It's finished! It's finished!'' 
they chanted. ``The dictatorship is finished!''