This is The World. I'm Lisa Mullins. Not since he took power 13 years 
ago, has Yugoslavia's President Slobodan Milosevic appeared so close 
to losing it. His grip began to slip on September 24th, when as even 
he admitted opposition candidate Vojislav Kostunica won more votes 
in a nation wide election. Milosevic claimed, however, that Kostunica 
had failed to win at least 50% and that another ballot would be necessary. 
The opposition insisted that Kostunica had won outright and staged 
mass anti-Milosevic demonstrations. Today, the protest reached a climax 
as hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets of Belgrade. 
The crowds took over the parliament building and a state television 
center and the events of the day resembled nothing so much as a popular 
revolution. The World's Nenad Chebeck takes us to the streets of the 
Serbian capital in his eyewitness report. Rock drummer Dragon Zuricic 
pounded out a beat for marching and hundreds of thousands of demonstrators 
took up the call. Within minutes, the center of the town was blocked 
solid. Opponents of Slobodan Milosevic called on the Yugoslav President 
to relinquish power immediately. An opposition spokesman demanded 
that Milosevic accept the electoral will of the people, that the Federal 
Electoral Commission reveal what she called the true result of the 
election. There were speeches and even songs, denouncing Slobodan 
Milosevic and praising opposition leader, Vojislav Kostunica. But 
the singing stopped and at least some shooting began. The crowd converged 
at the Federal Parliament building and tried to storm it. The police 
retaliated with tear gas and most streets around the buildings were 
full of people and tear gas. The mood became angry and several police 
cars were smashed or set ablaze. Then the demonstrators turned their 
fury towards a nearby police station. That's when the mass protest 
took what may have been a "turning point". The police gave themselves 
up without a fight and some of them even joined the demonstrators. 
Then the crowd marched over to the state run televison station. Much 
to the demonstrators' surprise dozens of heavily armed riot policemen 
simply walked out of the building and offered no resistance. Elsewhere 
in Belgrade, journalists at three other television stations and the 
radio station B92 took over their newsrooms vowing to report independently 
of state control. This evening, police withdrew from the streets of 
Belgrade. Outside the Federal parliament building, hundreds of thousands 
gathered for a rally. Vojislav Kostunica appealed to them to stay 
on the streets and defend democracy. Kostunica said Milosevic took 
the country into several wars and now wanted to wage a battle against 
his own people. The crowd chanted "arrest Slobo and let's march onto 
Beveneary 3rd, to Milosevic's residence. Kostunica advised calm, what 
he didn't say was what he couldn't, which is where exactly Slobodan 
Milosevic is. He hasn't been seen or heard from in the past 24 hours. 
For The World, this is Nenad Chebeck in Belgrade.