A small explosion in the Saudi capital injured three British citizens, 
the second such blast in a week. The explosion late Wednesday hit 
a car carrying two men and a woman, all British workers at an unidentified 
company in Riyadh, the director of Riyadh Police department told the 
Saudi Riyadh Daily. The three were taken to a hospital, where one 
was in stable condition with an injured right leg. The other two were 
slightly injured, the newspaper reported. The British Foreign Office 
confirmed Wednesday's explosion. A spokesman said it was too early 
to speculate on the cause. By Thursday morning, the start of the weekend 
in Saudi Arabia, the street and surrounding mixed residential and 
business neighborhood were quiet. Workers in the area said they had 
heard the explosion and saw police arrive to briefly cordon off the 
area Wednesday night. Last Friday, Christopher Rodway, 48, a British 
citizen working in a Saudi hospital, died after a small explosion 
tore through his car, which was believed to have been booby-trapped. 
Rodway's wife, Jane, 50, was slightly injured. Another Saudi paper, 
Okaz, quoted Deputy Interior Minister Prince Ahmed as saying the two 
explosions could be related, but that the three injured Wednesday 
did not work with the Rodways. ``What happened ... has no political 
undertones, it is a personal matter,'' Ahmed was quoted as saying. 
U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia and other parts of the Gulf have been 
on highest alert since an Oct. 12 attack on the USS Cole killed 17 
American sailors in the port of Aden, Yemen. Such an alert level is 
only issued when an attack occurs in the region or when there is specific 
information indicating that one may occur. American residents in Saudi 
Arabia had been reminded of the alert, with the U.S. Embassy describing 
it as a ``precautionary measure.'' A 1996 truck bombing outside the 
Khobar Towers housing complex near Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, killed 19 
U.S. Air Force personnel and injured more than 500 Americans and Saudis. 
The previous year, a car bomb blew up at a U.S. military headquarters 
in Riyadh, killing five Americans.