Little known outside his country, new President Valentin Paniagua 
has drafted some high-powered help in the daunting task of erasing 
the vestiges of 10 years of autocratic rule. Former U.N. Secretary-general 
Javier Perez de Cuellar, Peru's most illustrious son, was tapped Wednesday 
to be the country's prime minister and to help heal the wounds left 
by the ouster of Alberto Fujimori. Tarred by a mounting corruption 
scandal that plunged Peru into a deep political crisis, Fujimori fled 
the country last week, disgraced and dismissed by lawmakers who declared 
him morally unfit for office. Fujimori, the son of Japanese immigrants, 
fled to Japan, where he says he plans to stay indefinitely. But analysts 
say the 64-year-old Perez de Cuellar's impeccable democratic credentials 
lend credibility to an interim government whose mandate is to deliver 
free and fair elections April 8 and turn power over to a new president 
next July. There was a general sense of optimism here Wednesday as 
Paniagua, a congressman and leader of a small centrist party, was 
sworn in to replace Fujimori. ``Democracy undoubtedly has a future 
here,'' said Luis Pezzoriti, 42, an architect. ``Democracy in Peru 
over the past decade had been distorted. There basically was a civilian 
dictatorship.'' The teaming of Paniagua, known in Peruvian political 
circles as an honest consensus builder, with Perez de Cuellar, an 
internationally lauded diplomat who personally negotiated the 1987 
cease-fire in the Iran-Iraq war, drew a positive response from many 
Peruvians. ``The economic situation, the lack of work, has left us 
sad and basically abandoned,'' said Roberto Tello, a 64-year-old salesman. 
``We have hope with this new government, even though it's transitional, 
that things will get better.'' In a radio interview from France, where 
he lives most of the year, Perez de Cuellar said he had accepted Paniagua's 
offer to be Peru's prime minister hours before Paniagua took the oath 
of office in Congress. The 80-year-old career diplomat, who lost a 
presidential bid against Fujimori in 1995, said he would be back in 
Peru by Friday to begin working with Paniagua on a new Cabinet. The 
challenge, he said, would be finding the most capable people, ``with 
total independence to avoid as much as possible interference of political 
interests.'' Analysts said Perez de Cuellar's appointment would help 
open doors in the international community, as well as bridge the bitter 
political divide between former government loyalists and opposition 
leaders at home. Fujimori, who won a third five-year term in May elections 
marred by fraud allegations, saw his iron grip on power broken by 
a corruption scandal involving his top aide and spy chief, Vladimiro 
Montesinos. It was the security adviser's appearance in a videotape 
apparently bribing an opposition congressman that prompted Fujimori's 
announcement in September that he would call new elections and step 
down next year. But as the scandal grew, Fujimori submitted his resignation 
in a letter sent Monday from Japan. Lawmakers refused to accept his 
resignation, instead opting to dismiss him in a raucous session of 
Congress late Tuesday night. Still in hiding, Montesinos leaves behind 
a network of alleged money laundering, narcotics trafficking and influence 
peddling that investigators say stretches deep into all of Peru's 
democratic institutions. Paniagua has the mandate of those who vaulted 
him into the presidency to root out Montesinos' deep-seated influence. 
But perhaps his greatest challenge will be restoring credibility to 
the country's tattered democracy. ``Paniagua is honest. He doesn't 
have any scandals on his political record,'' said Luis Jochamowitz, 
a historian and author of a biography of Fujimori. ``The election 
of Paniagua is a prize for his loyalty to the party system after a 
10-year period in which the past administration vilified professional 
politicians, whether they were good or bad.''