Peru has a new President whom you've probably never heard of. Valentin 
Paniagua and a new Prime Minister who is more familiar, former UN 
Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar . The two leaders, who took 
office this week, face a daunting task to erase the wastages of Alberto 
Fujimori's 10 years of autocratic rule. Fujimori fled Peru and the 
mounting corruption scandal last week. He is now in Japan where he 
says he plans to stay indefinitely. But the Japanese, as the BBC's 
Charles Scandlin reports, have mixed feelings about hosting the former 
Peruvian President. After spending five days under tight security 
at a Tokyo hotel, Alberto Fujimori is on the move once again. Embassy 
officials would only say that he had gone to stay with friends. His 
long-term plans remain unclear. But he said he does want to remain 
in Japan for the time being. The Japanese media have been following 
Mr. Fujimori's movements closely. He is very well known in Japan. 
His election as President of Peru ten years ago caused a sensation 
here and he has made at least one trip a year to the country since 
then. Mr. Fujimori arrived in Tokyo last Friday in what seemed to 
be a stopover from a summit meeting in Brunei. Officials first said 
he was here to negotiate a loan and then said he was staying on because 
of illness. But Mr. Fujimori's true intentions became known at the 
weekend when he announced his resignation. "I have my reasons for 
taking this action and they might be difficult to understand," he 
told reporters, "but I am no longer a President, just an ordinary 
citizen". Mr. Fujimori's decision to stay in Japan puts the government 
in an embarrassing position. Officials say they will consider a request 
to extend his stay, but Japan has no provision for political asylum. 
And not all Japanese would agree with the decision to let him settle 
here. The reason, I cannot understand his reasons why he stayed in 
Japan because I think he should go back, I think. So that is my point. 
He has some responsibilities to say something to Peruvian people, 
I think. Yes, I think he can stay here because he is Japanese, he 
has Japanese ancestor and I think he has a right. Much of the debate 
hinges on the true nature of Mr. Fujimori's links with Japan. His 
parents immigrated from the Southern island of Kyushu in the 1930s, 
but they still registered his birth at the Japanese Embassy in Lima. 
That could entitle him to Japanese citizenship and would certainly 
make it easier for the authorities to grant him residency. Japan will 
be anxious not to offend the new administration in Lima, but it maintained 
extremely close ties with the Fujimori governments, lavishing economic 
aid on Peru after his election. But it may feel it owes him a debt 
of gratitude for his efforts to end the siege of the Japanese Embassy 
in 1996 when it was taken over by left wing guerillas. The BBC's Charles 
Scandlin reporting from Tokyo, Japan.