A special investigator has asked the attorney general's office to 
launch a criminal investigation of former President Alberto Fujimori 
for possible corruption. Jose Ugaz _ whom Fujimori himself appointed 
to investigate his former spy chief Vladimiro Montesinos _ said Friday 
that he filed the request a day before with Attorney General Nelly 
Calderon. In a news conference, Ugaz said the request covered a range 
of possible crimes, including money laundering, corruption of public 
officials and illicit enrichment during Fujimori's 10-year autocratic 
reign. Fujimori, 62, resigned as president Monday while in Japan and 
said he plans to stay there, his native land, indefinitely. His downfall 
was started by a corruption scandal surrounding his close ally, Montesinos, 
who appeared in a video apparently bribing an opposition congressman. 
The investigation request came amid allegations that Fujimori ordered 
a Government Palace legal aide to pose as a prosecutor and authorize 
police to carry out a Nov. 7 raid at Montesinos' apartment. Dozens 
of suitcases and boxes _ stuffed with documents, videotapes and other 
evidence related to the corruption case _ were taken from the apartment 
and delivered to the presidential palace, instead of to judicial authorities. 
During the raid, Fujimori, with a six-vehicle escort and pursued by 
reporters, led a bizarre and fruitless hunt for Montesinos in a resort 
town near Lima. Montesinos was widely thought to be protected by his 
allies in the military. Fujimori later said he had gone to ``breathe 
ocean air.'' But some have speculated the late-night ride was a diversion 
while police recovered incriminating evidence that Montesinos was 
rumored to be holding over the former president's head. National Police 
Gen. Federico Hurtado, accused of abuse of authority, testified Thursday 
in a military court that Fujimori presented him with the phony prosecutor 
and ordered the raid be carried out. ``President Fujimori plotted 
the entire operation, which I consider perverse,'' Hurtado told reporters 
Friday. ``All of us who participated in the operation were vilely 
tricked.'' Ugaz said his investigators received an anonymous tip that 
Fujimori had met with lawyers in Singapore last week on his way to 
Tokyo to arrange for the liquidation of two front companies and transfer 
$18 million to three bank accounts in Japan. This week, Ugaz asked 
Calderon's office to coordinate with Singaporean and Japanese authorities 
to investigate, he said. Fujimori has denied he received any money 
from the alleged transfers. Meanwhile, an official at Japan's Justice 
Ministry's Civil Affairs Bureau, speaking on condition of anonymity, 
said Friday that Fujimori may be eligible to stay permanently because 
of his Japanese ancestry. Japan has no extradition treaty with Peru. 
Refusing to accept his resignation, Peru's Congress on Tuesday dismissed 
Fujimori for ``moral unfitness.'' Congress President Valentin Paniagua 
was sworn in Wednesday as interim president, until a new president 
takes office in July after elections in April. Montesinos, who remains 
at large, faces criminal complaints ranging from directing death squads 
and torture to influence peddling and skimming profits from narcotics 
traffickers. Fujimori, known as an iron-fisted leader, won a third 
five-year term in May, in an election marred by fraud allegations.