At the White House today, President Clinton said the Serbs, quote,"are 
trying to get their country back" and that Americans hope they do. 
The opposition candidate who according to all unbiased reports clearly 
won the election obviously has, also has, strong differences with 
us. This is not a question of whether he agrees with us. All we want 
for the Serbian people is what we want for people everywhere, the 
right to freely choose their own leaders. That's President Clinton 
speaking earlier today at the White House. Alexa Gelus is a public 
policy scholar at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington DC. Mr. 
Gelus, you are a Serb historian. I wonder if you can shed some light 
on what's happening for us. Do you believe that what we are seeing 
today is a revolution? It's not a revolution in the sense that there 
is no violence. But it is revolution in the sense that large masses 
of people seem to be firmly determined to overthrow and change the 
regime and that Serbia deep in his heart has decided that they want 
to have democratic society. So what's the strategy as you see it at 
work. Why are the protesters attacking the parliament building? I 
mean, why are they confronting the President? I think it is symbolic, 
you know, they are attacking, you know, seats of power and so on. 
I mean they are not attacking parliament because they are opposed 
to parliamentarians, on the contrary, you know, they want democracy. 
I mean they are symbolic gestures. They are throwing, for example, 
Milosevic pictures out of the parliament. They know where the President 
is presumably. Why aren't they going to see him at his official residence 
or at the palace? Well, you see first of all it is not very likely 
that at the moment he is in that palace or residence. He is probably 
in some secret bunker where he was for example during the NATO bombing. 
And secondly Milosevic lives in a residential area, right, with rather 
narrow streets and removed from the center of Belgrade. So it's not 
so easy to get there, you know. It is relatively easy for police to 
block the access, either to his private house or to his residence. 
I think this is the main reason. If he lives in the center of Belgrade, 
I am certain that they would be storming his house. Do you think the 
Serbs have it in their minds to see that Milosevic gets out unharmed? 
Do you think that there is a possibility that they have in mind, Chouchescu 
type firing squad into this? Well, I would guess that this moment 
when people are really very angry there are some people who would 
wish for Milosevic and his followers, the fate of Chouchescu, the 
Romanian dictator and his wife but majority of people would be against 
it, you see. The opposition is, in general is adamant that they are 
against violence, that they are against revenge, against killing and 
so on. And also if you look at Milosevic's 13 years of rule in Serbia, 
I mean he repressed media. He intimidated political opponent, bribed 
them. He often did not respect law. But he had not engaged in large-scale 
violence or repression inside Serbia itself, also over Bosnia and 
Croatia, these are different questions. So, in that sense, I don't 
think, I would not think that majority of Serbs would want Milosevic 
killed. How does Milosevic get out of this? Well, with some difficulty. 
I think the way for Milosevic now is simply to accept the defeat and 
in return to demand from the opposition that he is not persecuted 
nor extradited to The Hague and simply withdraw to private life. I 
don't think there is any other solution for him at the moment. Well, 
of course nobody knows exactly what he is thinking right now, but 
is he the type of leader, based on some of his past actions, to think 
that he can withstand even this kind of feverish opposition? One of 
his kind of quality, if you can call it a quality, he has very strong 
nerves so it is difficult to spook him and he can remain under great 
pressure for a long time. We witnessed that during NATO bombing, but 
at the same time he is, how shall I put it, may be his strategy is 
irrational right. His whole view of politics is in deep conflict with 
the values of modern democracy. But at the same time on a day-to-day 
basis he is not an irrational politician. He is a rational, pragmatic 
politician, who calculates, who tries to a find a way out and so on. 
He is not a mad man as some people see him right and so I think that 
ultimately these instinct of self preservation and rational calculation 
will prevail. Alexa Gelus is a public policy scholar at the Woodrow 
Wilson Center in Washington DC. Thank you very much. Thank you.