When a U.S. guided missile destroyer sailed into Aden six weeks ago, 
the Pentagon in effect was taking a conscious risk _ making use of 
the best natural harbor on the Arabian peninsula but depending for 
the ship's safety on a government that relies on the uncertain loyalties 
of army officers, Muslim clerics and tribal leaders with long-standing 
links to armed Islamic militant groups. So far, FBI officials investigating 
the suicide bombing of the Cole on Oct. 12, in which 17 U.S. sailors 
were killed and 39 injured, say they have no evidence that anybody 
at any official level participated in the bombing, beyond the low-level 
suspects already arrested by President Ali Abdullah Saleh's security 
police for issuing false documents and helping with other logistics. 
But from the beginning, FBI agents have kept open an alternate possibility 
_ that the attack may have involved powerful figures inside Yemen 
who have close ties with Osama bin Laden, the FBI's most-wanted terrorist. 
In the face of vigorous Yemeni denials, the FBI has wanted to know 
whether any part of the Cole bombing was supported from within the 
government, or by powerful men with Islamic-militant credentials who 
live under official protection. From a base in Afghanistan, bin Laden, 
43-year-old son of a Yemeni-born Saudi Arabian construction billionaire, 
reached out to Yemen for thousands of recruits for his ``holy war,'' 
first against Soviet troops in Afghanistan, later against U.S. troops 
in the Arabian Peninsula and the Persian Gulf. Along the way, he met 
men now prominent in San`a, the Yemeni capital, including a top army 
commander, the country's most militant Muslim cleric, and a prominent 
tribal leader. Western intelligence reports say he gave them money 
to send Yemeni recruits to Afghanistan, and back to Yemen when the 
Afghan struggle ended. These so-called Arab Afghans _ about 3,000 
Yemenis, and perhaps twice as many non-Yemeni Arabs, including Algerians, 
Egyptians, Iraqis, Jordanians, Somalis, Sudanese and Syrians _ were 
then enlisted in terrorist attacks aimed at communists who had run 
a separate Yemeni state from Aden between 1967 and 1990, when the 
two Yemens merged under Saleh, the San`a ruler. This pact culminated 
in a 1994 civil war. Saleh finally defeated the communists, using 
large numbers of Arab Afghans formed into Islamic terrorist units 
as his shock troops, and then rewarding their service and buying their 
further loyalty by bringing them into the ``big tent'' of his disparate 
government. The FBI's concern over possible links to the Cole bombing 
appears to have grown as the Yemeni investigation of the bombing has 
progressed. The Yemenis, denying the FBI direct access to interrogations 
and other key aspects of their inquiry, say that their investigation 
is nearly complete, that it shows that two bearded men who attacked 
the Cole in a fiberglass skiff were Saudi Arabian-born Yemenis, like 
bin Laden, and that the most useful leads in the case now lie outside 
Yemen. In the last week, the FBI's concerns were heightened by the 
government's decision to open a trial, probably in January, of half 
a dozen key suspects, mostly Arab Afghans who had low-level government 
jobs. U.S. officials say an early trial, based on evidence that the 
Yemenis say links the bombers to bin Laden's network but not to anybody 
at senior levels in Yemen, could obscure more than it reveals. The 
U.S. officials draw parallels with the Saudi investigation into the 
1996 truck-bombing of the Khobar Towers military barracks outside 
Dhahran, which killed 19 U.S. servicemen. Saudi officials prevented 
the FBI from questioning any suspects and eventually held a trial, 
executing the alleged conspirators without giving the Americans any 
access. But the Khobar Towers analogy, and the mere suggestion that 
prominent Yemenis might have connived in the Cole bombing has enraged 
the Yemenis. Last week, Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Iryani, a Yale-educated 
biogeneticist, called an American reporter and denied any suggestion 
of a cover-up. Throughout his tenure, al-Iryani has been caught in 
a political crossfire resulting from his government's desire for improved 
relations with the United States _ as evidenced by the agreement on 
Navy ships refueling in Yemen _ and its desire not to provoke influential 
Yemenis who are militantly anti-American. Over the fierce resistance 
of Yemeni secret police, the prime minister has been negotiating with 
the U.S. ambassador, Barbara K. Bodine, for better FBI access to the 
Yemeni probe, including the right to have FBI agents watch Yemeni 
interrogations through a one-way mirror or a live television relay. 
Until now, all the FBI has seen of the interrogations has been edited 
transcripts. In the telephone call, al-Iryani reiterated that ``it 
is nonsense, absolute nonsense'' to suggest that some of bin Laden's 
old allies in San`a could have played a part in the bombing of the 
Cole. Referring to the Arab Afghans who settled into Yemen's remote 
mountains and deserts in the early 1990s as jihadis, or holy warriors, 
he said they had been contained since joining the government. ``Yes, 
these jihadis have helped us during the secessionist war, and yes, 
we decided that they must be absorbed into the government system afterwards 
and not let loose to cause trouble,'' he said. But that did not translate 
into high-level Yemeni connivance in the Cole bombing, the prime minister 
added. ``On the contrary, nobody who planned this attack could conceivably 
have consulted with high officials, for the simple reason that they 
would have known that anyone who did would have been arrested immediately,'' 
he said. What anybody makes of all this depends, in part, on the assessment 
of Saleh, one of the Arab world's longest-surviving leaders, and his 
policy of reaching out to Islamic militants, rather than jailing and 
executing them, as has happened in Egypt, Jordan and other Arab states. 
Although the policy raises debate elsewhere in the Arab world, it 
is at least to some extent an outgrowth of Saleh's own turbulent political 
past and the Yemeni elite's history of assassination and betrayal. 
Saleh, then an obscure army officer, became president after an army 
officers' coup in which one Yemeni president, Ibrahim al-Hamdi, was 
shot dead in 1977, and a second coup eight months later in which al-Hamdi's 
successor, Ahmad al-Ghashmi, a close ally of Saleh, was killed by 
an agent of the Aden communists with a suitcase bomb. That Saleh, 
59, is still president 22 years later, despite assassination attempts, 
his aides suggest, is partly because he reached out to potential enemies, 
rewarding any who stepped into his ``big tent'' with government protection 
and salaries. But the corollary is that Saleh has made allies, or 
at least beneficiaries, of men with lurid pasts, especially the Arab 
Afghans. This paid off for him when Islamic militant groups allied 
with his forces and entered Aden on June 21, 1994, finally reuniting 
Yemen after centuries of division, while killing at least 10,000 civilians 
in the process, according to Western human rights reports. Years later, 
the result is that the capital has become a hive of political, ideological 
and religious contradictions that were bound to intrigue U.S. officials 
investigating the Cole bombing. One of the most powerful expressions 
of this complex situation was that by the time Saleh negotiated the 
agreement allowing U.S. warships to refuel in Aden, two of the most 
powerful people in the capital, after Saleh himself, were one-time 
allies of bin Laden. U.S. intelligence reports say both these men 
traveled to Afghanistan in the 1980s to meet bin Laden, and helped 
recruit militants from across the Muslim world for the Afghan struggle. 
One of them is Saleh's half brother, Ali Mohsen al-Ahmar, a high-ranking 
army general who is said to have presidential ambitions himself. Some 
rivals attribute to Ahmar, a burly man in his early 50s, an unsavory 
record, including the financing of militant Islamic groups. Before 
the 1994 war, some Yemeni officials and Western intelligence reports 
say, the general was in charge of $20 million supplied by bin Laden 
to help settle Arab Afghan fighters in Yemen. Later, as Saleh's military 
commander in Southern Yemen, he oversaw the deployment of the Islamic 
groups in the climactic battle for the city. More recently, according 
to some Yemeni reports, he may have been unsettled by Saleh's decision 
to appoint as head of his presidential guard _ and heir presumptive 
_ his son Ahmed Ali Abdullah Saleh, an army officer in his mid-30s. 
Yemeni officials say the general retains strong links to his past 
involvement with the Arab Afghan network in Yemen, through his marriage 
to a sister of a prominent tribal leader, Tariq Nasr al-Fadhli, one 
of the leading Afghan war veterans living on a government stipend 
in San`a. Son of one of the most powerful sultans in southern Yemen 
during the British colonial era, al-Fadhli, in his mid-40s, is said 
by Yemeni and U.S. officials to have met bin Laden in Saudi exile 
in the 1980s and to have fought under him in Afghanistan. Now he is 
a member of the presidential council, a largely symbolic advisory 
body to Saleh. Later, he returned to Yemen as leader of one of the 
most active Islamic terrorist groups. The FBI files say he was the 
point man in the botched December 1992 bombings of two Aden hotels 
that were billeting more than 100 U.S. troops en route to Somalia. 
Those bombings _ also directed by bin Laden, the FBI contends _ failed 
to kill any Americans only because a detonator went off prematurely, 
disabling a huge truck bomb. The man believed to have driven the truck, 
and to have lost his hand when the detonator exploded, Jamal al-Nahdi, 
is said by U.S. officials to be living in San`a as a businessman. 
Another prominent figure with long-standing ties to Islamic terrorist 
groups is a militantly anti-American cleric, Abdel Meguid al-Zindani. 
In his late 60s, al-Zindani heads a San`a theological school, the 
University of Faith, a beneficiary of government financial aid, where 
for years thousands of students from across north Africa and the Middle 
East have been immersed in the militant Salafi form of Islam that 
has inspired many militant Islamic organizations, including the Armed 
Islamic Group in Algeria that stands accused of brutal massacres of 
Algerian villagers. What any of these men think of the attack on the 
Cole is not known. From the day of the bombing, the Saleh government 
has contrived to deny Western reporters free access, watching carefully 
where they go and whom they see. The only senior government officials 
authorized to speak about the Cole bombing have been Saleh and al-Iryani. 
Al-Iryani, asked about Mohsen and al-Fadhli, said both men had permanently 
severed their ties with the Arab Afghan network. Meanwhile, the questions 
posed by the Cole bombing have carried U.S. officials back to calculations 
made before the warship-refueling program began. Then, officials like 
Bodine, the U.S. ambassador, had to explain to the Pentagon why it 
made sense to bring warships into a country that the State Department 
itself had described as ``a safe haven for terrorist groups,'' or 
to trust a government that had espoused some sharply anti-American 
policies _ for example, supporting Saddam Hussein in his 1990 invasion 
of Kuwait. The argument that prevailed in Washington was that the 
Saleh government was changing, and that it had taken important steps 
to curb Islamic terrorist groups still based in the remote parts of 
the country. This is al-Iryani's contention, and it has strong support 
from U.S. officials here, who say they believe that Saleh would like 
to curb the Arab Afghans once and for all. Yet even Americans who 
pushed hardest for the refueling agreement now question whether the 
only assistance the Cole bombers had from Yemenis came from a handful 
of lower-level officials. ``It was much more complicated than that, 
and required a lot of help from inside the country,'' a senior U.S. 
official said. ``As for who gave that help, that's like trying to 
sort out the tentacles of an octopus.''