A characteristically defiant Slobodan Milosevic staged his political 
comeback Saturday, winning re-election as leader of his Socialist 
Party of Serbia and denouncing as a coup the popular uprising that 
swept him from power last month. In his first public appearance since 
he accepted his election defeat and resigned as the Yugoslav president 
on Oct. 6, a day after the uprising, Milosevic gave an aggressive 
opening speech to the Socialist Party congress. ``Everybody in this 
hall knows what kind of violence and lawlessness has taken place since 
the coup on October 5,'' he said. ``The situation is absurd. ``The 
biggest defender of the state and national interests is the Socialist 
Party of Serbia, and that's why the party is the main target of the 
attacks,'' he said to long applause. The party congress was closed 
to the news media, but film and text of his speech were released to 
news agencies and foreign reporters outside the congress hall. Milosevic, 
who exuded confidence as he re-emerged from self-imposed seclusion 
Saturday, won 86.55 percent of the votes cast by more than 2,000 delegates 
at the party congress, according to Zoran Nikolic, a co-justice minister 
in the transitional government of Serbia and a senior party member. 
Saturday's congress was called after the Socialists' resounding defeat 
in local elections and Milosevic's failure in the race for Yugoslav 
president on Sept. 24. It falls just a month ahead of Dec. 23 legislative 
elections in Serbia, where real power lies in the Yugoslav federation. 
There has been, leading Socialists said, some fierce internal criticism 
of Milosevic. But the man who led Serbia into three lost wars and 
bequeathed his successors a ruined economy was the only candidate 
proposed for president of a party that he built 10 years ago from 
the ruins of the League of Communists, which ran Yugoslavia for 45 
years after World War II. This week, Milosevic was shown twice on 
television urging party officials to unite for the December elections, 
signaling his determination to continue _ despite his indictment for 
war crimes _ to be a force in Serbian politics. On Saturday, Milosevic 
referred to the International War Crimes Tribunal, which indicted 
him for suspected atrocities committed by his security forces in Kosovo 
last year, as ``the new Gestapo in The Hague.'' ``A part of the international 
community accused Serbs of genocide against Albanians,'' he said, 
in clear reference to the Hague tribunal. He countered by referring 
to the alleged persecution of minority Kosovo Serbs in the 1980s, 
and the persecution and killings they have suffered since NATO troops 
entered Kosovo in June 1999 when Milosevic's Serbian forces withdrew. 
``Genocide was carried out against the Serbs by that part of the international 
community,'' he said. The estimated 100,000 Serbs who remain in Kosovo 
today ``are the greatest sufferers of the end of the century, maybe 
even at this moment the greatest heroes in the world,'' he told the 
congress, according to the text of his remarks. Rival candidates for 
the party leadership were discussed, said Zoran Andjelkovic, the new 
general secretary of the Socialists, but of the seven people nominated, 
six refused to run, and one of them quit the party. Milosevic attended 
four party meetings to prepare for the congress, Andjelkovic said, 
adding: ``He is feeling pretty fresh. He's not been doing anything 
lately.'' Party officials insist that Milosevic remains popular among 
the rank and file of the 700,000-member Socialists. ``His role in 
founding and building this party and sustaining it for so long is 
enormous,'' said Zarko Obradovic, one of 37 members of the party's 
executive board. ``It is an undisputed fact that Mr. Milosevic is 
one of the greatest leaders in this area, and people are members of 
the party because of him.'' In the Sept. 24 presidential election, 
Milosevic won 30 percent of the vote, compared with just over 50 percent 
for Vojislav Kostunica, the candidate of the Democratic Opposition 
of Serbia. Opinion polls now show the Socialist Party with about 10 
percent of popular support. Milosevic's personal rating is slipping 
even lower. Zoran Lilic, a former president of Serbia and senior Socialist 
who quit to establish a rival party last month, said before the congress 
that Milosevic saw the gathering as his ticket to political survival. 
``He was really shaken after Oct. 5, but then he realized that he 
had not played all his aces, and he still has some in his hand: that 
is the party,'' Lilic said. ``He is destroying the SPS to protect 
himself.'' Lilic had predicted the party's leadership election would 
be rigged: ``I know how things were done,'' he said. On Saturday, 
Milosevic denounced top Socialists who had left the party as ``self-serving 
cowards,'' solely motivated by a desire for power. Borisav Jovic, 
a former deputy to Milosevic who this week split away to found yet 
another rival party, said he had still hoped for ``extraordinary personnel 
changes'' and a switch from ``the misguided policies'' _ in particular, 
the move by Milosevic to give power to members of the Yugoslav Left, 
the party of his wife, Mirjana Markovic. Other reasons for conflict 
with the Socialist Party, Jovic said, were the ``totally unnecessary'' 
argument with Serbia's sister republic, Montenegro, which threatens 
Yugoslavia's very existence, and the effort to manipulate the September 
election result, which risked bringing violent revolt to Serbia. ``To 
lead the country in this way is impossible, and the membership just 
does not accept that,'' Jovic said.