Peru's new interim President Valentine Paniagua has named his new 
cabinet. The sixteen new ministers are mostly moderate figures who 
can expect backing across the political spectrum. Congress appointed 
Mr. Paniagua as interim President Wednesday after dismissing the previous 
leader Alberto Fujimori. The Paniagua presidency brings an end to 
10 years of autocratic rule by ex-President Fujimori. As VOA's Bill 
Rogers reports, people hope Peru's new interim President can make 
democratic reforms and end years of corruption and abuse of power. 
Hours after Wednesday's inauguration, people were still gathered in 
front of the presidential palace, watching dignitaries going in and 
out of the building to pay their respects to Peru's new President. 
The crowds were small as darkness fell, but their presence was symbolic. 
For months, the area around the place had been the scene of protest 
as people marched to demand the resignation of Mr. Fujimori. Clashes 
occasionally broke out between riot police and protestors and blue 
clouds of choking teargas would fill the square in front of the building. 
But on Wednesday evening all was peaceful. A new climate could be 
felt according to onlooker Roy Pumahambo who described himself as 
an Indian from the Andean highlands. He said ex-President Fujimori 
left many negative things, shadows of ambition for power, shadows 
of desperation and all this has been swept away. Others view the change 
that had taken place in more practical terms. Van Oscar says he hopes 
the new interim government can begin to turn the country around economically. 
Yes, he said, there have to be economic changes, simply because there 
will be more openness. Too many things were hidden under the old government. 
Too much money was stolen. Mr. Oscar was referring to reports that 
billions of dollars earned from the sale of state companies during 
the Fujimori administration apparently cannot be fully accounted for. 
Mr. Fujimori, who is of Japanese descent, was a political unknown 
when he was elected President in 1990. His success in stabilizing 
the economy and putting down two violent leftist insurgencies gained 
him widespread support during his first five-year term. But Mr. Fujimori 
also had an authoritarian streak. He temporarily abolished the Congress 
in 1992 and the notorious Spy Chief Vladamiro Montecinos undermined 
Peru's political opposition. It was the broadcast of a video tape 
in mid September showing Mr. Montecinos apparently bribing a politician 
that triggered the political firestorm that eventually brought down 
Mr. Fujimori and lead to his letter of resignation sent earlier this 
week from Japan. In the wake of Mr. Fujimori's departure, President 
Valentine Paniagua's main task will be to organize new elections for 
next April, after which he will hand over power to his elected successor 
in July. Mr. Fujimori's re-election this past May to a third term 
in office was marred by irregularities and charges of vote fraud. 
In his inauguration speech Wednesday, Mr. Paniagua pledged to enact 
reforms that will make next year's elections free and fair. Bill Rogers, 
VOA News, Lima.