After a decade in which he governed Peru as an authoritarian ruler, 
Alberto Fujimori now seems weary and regretful as he adjusts to a 
new life as a private citizen here. Slouched on a couch in his plush 
hotel suite during most of a 50-minute interview, his posture suggested 
both physical and moral fatigue. Still, Fujimori, who switched freely 
back and forth between English and Spanish, expressed no regrets about 
his most fateful decisions in a life of politics that apparently ended 
last week when he resigned the Peruvian presidency during a visit 
here in Tokyo, after attending a summit meeting of Pacific rim nations 
in Brunei. He stood by his decision to change Peru's electoral rules 
so that he could run for a third term, and by his failure to move 
against his intelligence chief, Vlademiro Montesinos, even after that 
man's indiscretions began posing a threat to his political survival. 
``The decision might have been better to close my presidency after 
two terms, but there was a risk, and the risk was that there was no 
strong candidate from my party,'' he said. ``It was decided that I 
should contest the elections again. That is too bad, but it happened 
that way. I had no successor.'' The former president minced few words 
about Montesinos, who was captured on videotape seeming to pay a bribe 
to a legislator, in an incident that precipitated Fujimori's downfall, 
accusing him of making off with $48 million in illegally obtained 
money. Montesinos, who returned to Peru after a brief exile, subsequently 
eluded Fujimori's attempts to have him arrested. Fujimori said his 
intelligence chief, ``still enjoys the protection of powerful groups 
in the society, and he is not alone. He has ties to members of Congress, 
including to the opposition. He has the support of at least two television 
networks, and he has the support of several judges. So much so that 
the people who were investigating him are now being persecuted.'' 
Fujimori defended his decision not to arrest Montesinos immediately 
after the bribery scandal, offering him a chance for asylum in Panama 
instead _ saying that it had been taken in the interest of political 
peace in the runup to elections. ``Everybody supported the asylum,'' 
he said. ``Even the United States.'' Fujimori staked a bold claim 
for continued popular support in his country, and expressed strong 
remorse for causing confusion among his supporters. ``The opposition 
will not forgive me, in part, because of my mistakes, but mostly because 
of my success,'' he said. ``Even now I have the support of a lot of 
people. One quarter of the population still supports me, even with 
all of these problems, and despite my resignation, which is unexplained.'' 
But ever decisive, Fujimori stated categorically that he had no interest 
in becoming president yet again, calling statements to the opposite 
effect quoted in some media ``a joke.'' ``I have the complete conviction 
that I will never again be president,'' Fujimori said. ``The question 
I was asked was whether I could overcome all of these problems and 
become president again. Why not? But I don't want to be president.'' 
About his future, though, Fujimori's plans remained vague. ``I have 
not fixed the period of my stay in Japan,'' he said. ``That depends 
on the evolution of the situation in Peru. Some people may feel that 
my return might disturb the political process.'' In the meantime, 
with the support of friends this man whose parents emigrated from 
Japan to Peru before his birth, and who says he did not learn Spanish 
until the age of 5, plans to settle down and relearn a language he 
says is still engraved in his mind from childhood. He plans to write 
a book about his experiences, including his 1996 decision to raid 
the Japanese Embassy in Peru and free hostages being held by leftist 
guerrillas. ``I will write about the Japan Embassy incident, about 
peace with Ecuador, about the fight against terrorism, even about 
El Nino,'' he said. ``If I can earn $1 per book, the Japanese will 
buy 500,000 copies, and I will have half a million dollars. Why not 
sell it in America, too? ``I will become a Japanese taxpayer.'' Fujimori 
dismissed the accusations of corruption made against him in recent 
days as groundless, and denied that he holds any bank accounts outside 
of Peru, as critics have alleged. Fujimori used the word surprise 
together with another, confusion, to describe the impact of his abrupt 
resignation on his nation, and on his supporters after a career marked 
by never-say-quit doggedness. ``I took a surprise decision to move 
on the Japanese Embassy at a time when all of the journalists were 
sleeping or taking a snack,'' he said. ``In the crisis with Ecuador, 
I took the decisions by myself to reach a peace, despite the warnings 
of my advisers. ``This kind of way of making politics in Peru took 
everybody by surprise,'' Fujimori added. ``But I am a decision-maker. 
This time I had to make a decision, too. A surprising decision in 
this unusual decision to resign, and it has been very difficult to 
explain to the Peruvian people. My decisions are sometimes regarded 
as a betrayal, but some months later, people say, oh, Fujimori was 
right.''