Milosevic got even more bad news today from Montenegro, Serbia's last 
remaining partner in Yugoslavia. As spokesman for Milosevic's Socialist 
Party there said, the party had not yet decided whether to take part 
in further presidential voting. The government of Montenegro is pro-western 
and in fact boycotted last month's election claiming it was illegal. 
To find out the mood of ordinary citizens and the Republic, we turn 
to The World's Jennifer Glass in the capital Podgorica. The people 
of Montenegro are watching what's happening in Belgrade closely. The 
only sound on the streets that anything is going on is increased security 
around the government buildings. Montenegro's Deputy Prime Minister 
Dragesa Borzon says that's just a precaution, incase Slobodan Milosevic 
tries to make a last move. He might try in desperation to put up flame 
here somehow and there is some mood among officers here, but prevailing 
mood among army people here is not to try that and that gives me a 
hope that we may escape after 13 years of these horrible developments, 
that he will escape without conflict. But what form Montenegro would 
take is still in question. There is a strong independent movement. 
Borzon says, in some ways it will become weaker if and when Milosevic 
goes because he was a common enemy. The man who would replace him, 
Vojislav Kostunica has said he wants Montenegro to remain part of 
Yugoslavia, but he has not said what rights the Republic would have. 
Montenegro historically regards its sister Republic Serbia with suspicion. 
In the town of Cetinje, Montenegro's former capital, locals point 
to a building that was the Serbian embassy at the beginning of the 
20th century, proof they say that Montenegro was independent of Serbia 
and will be again. Part of any future separation from Serbia may like 
the other splits in the Balkans be driven by religion. In an office 
on a hillside, orthodox priest Mikilo Dadivic calls himself the Metropolitan 
of the Montenegrin Orthodox Church, which he says has a right to be 
free of the Serbian church. Serbia does not recognize Montenegro as 
an independent state he says and the Serb Orthodox Church does not 
recognize the Montenegrin Orthodox Church as independent. He says 
they see Montenegro as a region. Once it was a region of their great 
Serbia, now it's a region of their small Serbia. Dadivic says the 
Montenegrin church lost its independence from Serbia in the 1920s, 
but the Government's Minister of Religion Vladimir Duboc denies the 
Montenegrin church was ever independent and says there is one church 
here. Orthodox Church was always a factor of gathering the cohesion. 
So it was not a factor of division that's why I do not consider that 
we have separate churches here. In Montenegro there is only one church 
and it is Serbian Orthodox. He says Dadivic has no authority to try 
and split the Orthodox Church, but no one will stop him. I don't think 
that term 'rebels' can be used because they are not rebels. They have 
the absolute right to express their religious belief, but they cannot 
claim for what is not theirs. But Dadivic claims that more than 600 
churches in Montenegro controlled by the Serbs should be turned over 
to Montenegrins. Setinya's monastery, less than a mile from his office, 
is run by the Serbian Orthodox Church. The priests here won't talk 
about the church division. The elderly nun running the souvenir shop 
was happy too. I asked what she thought of the idea of the Montenegrin 
church taking over the monastery? She dismissed the possibility. They 
can't bother us, she says. The Montenegrin Orthodox Church is not 
even a real church. Then a large man in civilian clothes told her 
to be quiet. No interviews, no comment, no information he said. Montenegrins 
accused the Serbian Orthodox Church of rewriting history to keep this 
Republic's church under its control. Rewriting history, changing the 
rules, just like they say Milosevic is doing in Belgrade now. Perhaps 
the simple fact that the turmoil there has hardly touched life here, 
it is a sign of how much independence Montenegro already has. For 
The World, I am Jennifer Glass in Podgorica.