For a glimpse of the shadowy world of fugitive ex-spy chief Vladimiro 
Montesinos, Peruvians were taken through a secret tunnel leading to 
an escape hatch under his bathtub. From there, Peru's Panamericana 
Television broadcast an exclusive tour Sunday night of the spymaster's 
luxury beach house in Lurin, a Pacific coast resort town 22 miles 
south of Lima. The house _ hidden behind high windowless walls topped 
with protective electrified wires _ was raided earlier this month 
by police searching for the elusive intelligence adviser. It was Montesinos' 
reputed web of corruption that led to President Alberto Fujimori's 
downfall after a decade of authoritarian rule. The dusty treeless 
streets outside the home belied an opulent setting, replete with wood 
panel doors reinforced with armor plating, a portable satellite phone 
in the master bedroom, and hidden cameras in the guest suites and 
inside a stereo speaker by the indoor pool. Before going into hiding, 
Montesinos reportedly made copies of some 2,500 video and audio recordings 
that presumably incriminate politicians, military leaders and businessmen. 
Since his return last month from a failed asylum bid in Panama, he 
has remained Peru's most wanted man. He faces criminal complaints 
ranging from directing death squads and torture to laundering money 
from narcotics trafficking. Rumors abound that he has already left 
Peru and is in hiding in Bolivia or Paraguay. But Francisco Loayza, 
a former intelligence agent who has written a book about Montesinos 
called ``The Dark Face of Power,'' said Monday he believes the ex-spy 
chief is still in Peru. ``With complete certainty, the best place 
to hide for Montesinos right now is Peru. Why? Because of the abounding 
information he has on a lot of people,'' Loayza said. ``I believe 
he has a high percentage of documents that serve as instruments of 
coercion and blackmail and therefore he is probably in the process 
of moving from house to house.'' Montesinos was once Fujimori's closest 
adviser and viewed by many Peruvians as even more powerful than the 
former president. Montesinos was forced underground after the broadcast 
in September of a videotape snatched from his collection showing him 
in the apparent act of bribing a congressman. Allegations followed 
that he had laundered more than $48 million in Swiss bank accounts, 
and at least $10 million more in banks in New York, Uruguay, Luxembourg, 
and the Cayman Islands. Montesinos' official salary was about $370 
per month, about three times the monthly minimum wage of $117 _ a 
benchmark that half the population living in poverty fails to earn. 
The broadcast images gave a hint of how Montesinos spent at least 
some of his fortune to ensure that an escape route would always be 
available. He installed a pink bathtub that when lifted revealed a 
tunnel leading under the house to a secret hatch under a plant bed 
on a nearby street. Another secret panel by the pool led to a garage 
in a neighboring house. Fujimori fired Montesinos in September and 
said he would step down next year after new elections. But Congress 
ousted Fujimori from office last week, declaring him morally unfit 
for the presidency and ignoring his resignation offered from self-imposed 
exile in Japan. The scandal involving Montesinos has spread to Switzerland, 
and Swiss authorities said Tuesday that $48 million in Swiss bank 
accounts that they say is linked to the spymaster likely came from 
payments of commissions on arms deals between Peru and Russia. The 
accounts are frozen. In a statement from the Zurich district attorney's 
office, officials also said they had found _ and frozen _ another 
$22 million from the arms deals. They did not explicitly link the 
funds to Montesinos, but to the deals. Meanwhile, Japanese officials 
said Tuesday that the government has not yet determined whether Fujimori 
holds citizenship from Japan, from where his parents emigrated. They 
added that he would be permitted to stay in Japan for the time being.