For Steven Seymour, it looked like a plum assignment when he accompanied 
President Carter to Poland in December 1977 as the official interpreter. 
But he spoke Polish with a Russian accent and many Poles were offended. 
The result: large headlines over unflattering stories. Sean Lam can 
identify with Seymour. Lam, a native of Vietnam who migrated to the 
United States 30 years ago, accompanied President Clinton to Vietnam 
earlier this month as his interpreter. Among other assignments, he 
was asked to translate the president's speech at Vietnam National 
University in Hanoi on Nov. 17. For Lam, it was a nightmarish experience 
that ended with his replacement the following day by Clinton's national 
security adviser, Sandy Berger. Normally, the work of interpreters 
is taken for granted. It is only when things go wrong that people 
take notice. Seymour's problem was his accent. In Lam's case, the 
difficulty apparently was logistics and, U.S. Embassy officials said, 
Lam's southern accent, which can be confusing to northerners, who 
dominated Clinton's audience. A senior State Department official, 
speaking on condition of anonymity, gave this account of what ensued: 
Lam, who had been boning up on a prepared text of the president's 
speech, was handed a new version just minutes before Clinton strode 
to the podium. This was a clear setback, but he had the help of another 
interpreter, Thanh Vuong, who was at his side in the booth as Clinton 
was speaking. His task was to call attention to areas in the new text 
that differed from the previous draft. In the middle of the speech, 
a White House aide ordered Thanh to leave the booth so he could be 
available to help Clinton with post-speech small talk with the audience. 
Almost simultaneously, news reporters, having been assigned to use 
the booth as a workplace, made a noisy arrival. The decibel level 
was accentuated by the absence of soundproofing. ``He lost his concentration,'' 
the official said. Lam had an especially difficult time hearing the 
president's comments on human rights but felt his attempt at paraphrasing 
was adequate. An unofficial translation suggests that Clinton's listeners 
were shortchanged. A White House transcript quotes the president as 
saying as one point: ``In our experience, guaranteeing the right to 
religious worship and the right to political dissent does not threaten 
the stability of a society.'' Lam's translation: ``In our experience, 
allowing the right to religious worship does not affect the institutions. 
Instead it makes our institutions better.'' Clinton: ``Vietnam has 
agreed it will subject important decisions to the rule of law and 
the international trading system, increase the flow of information 
to its people, and accelerate the rise of a free economy and the private 
sector.'' The translation got as far as ``international trading system.'' 
The rest of the sentence was omitted. The embassy received at least 
three telephone calls from Vietnamese who complained about the translation, 
and some in the audience gave up and took off their translation headsets. 
The State Department official said Clinton compounded Lam's problems 
by speeding up his delivery during the human rights section of his 
speech. In addition, all of the material in that section had not appeared 
in the earlier draft and thus was all new to Lam, the official said. 
Virtually all of these problems would not have occurred if the White 
House had not waited until the last minute to clear the text. State 
Department officials say the French, Germans, Chinese and others all 
have speeches _ and translations _ of the top leadership ready to 
go with ample lead time. Though Berger relieved Lam of his duties 
after the speech, the State Department does not hold him responsible 
for the gaffes and plans to offer him new assignments. As for Seymour, 
he rebounded smartly from that low point in Warsaw 23 years ago. He 
is an interpreter at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow and is considered 
an ace of the staff there. ___ EDITOR'S NOTE _ George Gedda has covered 
foreign affairs for The Associated Press since 1968. ___ On the Net: 
State Department site: http://www.state.gov