The Voice of America presents differing points of view on a wide variety 
of issues. Next, an editorial expressing the policies of the United 
States government. Valentine Paniagua is now heading an interim government 
in Peru. He selected former United Nations Secretary General Haviar 
Perez Dequia as Prime Minister, Haviar Silva as Economy Minister and 
Diego Garcia, a respected judicial and human rights expert, as Justice 
Minister. President Paniagua is the former head of the Peruvian Congress. 
He was chosen to replace the deposed President Alberto Fujimori. Mr. 
Paniagua's caretaker government will serve until presidential elections 
next April. President Fujimori's grip on power was broken by a corruption 
scandal involving ex-intelligence advisor Vladimiro Montecinos. Mr. 
Fujimori announced from Japan that he was stepping down from the presidency. 
But opposition lawmakers did not accept his resignation. They voted 
instead, to vacate the presidency on constitutional grounds of moral 
incapacity. Now, a special prosecutor is investigating both Fujimori 
and Montecinos, who went into hiding in October. In many years of 
public service in Peru, Mr. Paniagua showed his commitment to civic 
leadership. As Congressional leader, he was a member of the National 
Dialogue on Democratic Reform. Now, as President, he has a mandate 
to lead Peru toward national reconciliation. The United States looks 
forward to working with President Paniagua and his administration. 
While the US does not support any particular individual or party, 
the US does support a free and fair electoral process. President Paniagua 
has vowed that the April 8th elections will be free and fair. He has 
stressed that human rights, particularly freedom of expression, must 
be respected. He has also indicated that reform is needed in Peru's 
judiciary and intelligence and security services. The government and 
people of Peru can count on the support of the United States as they 
work to reform their democratic institutions.