Former Prime Minister Federico Salas testified Wednesday in Congress 
that fugitive ex-spy chief Vladimiro Montesinos threatened a military 
coup against former President Alberto Fujimori's government. ``I lived 
with this threat of a coup,'' Salas said, offering a rare insider 
account of those days in mid-September after a corruption scandal 
erupted around the spy chief, signaling an end to Fujimori's decade 
of authoritarian rule. Salas said, following Fujimori's instructions, 
that he phoned Montesinos and demanded his resignation. Montesinos' 
reply was chilling. He said that: ``No president, much less a puny 
chief of the Cabinet, had the power to force him from his position, 
and that he had 3,000 armed men, and that furthermore, if he wanted 
to, he could carry out a coup d'etat at that moment,'' Salas recalled. 
Salas said Montesinos indicated that if he continued to insist on 
the resignation, Salas would not exit the palace gates alive. The 
incident occurred a few days after Montesinos appeared in a leaked 
videotape on Sept. 14 apparently bribing an opposition congressman. 
The video's broadcast prompted Fujimori two days later to announce 
new elections next April in which he would not be a candidate. Congress 
ousted Fujimori from office last week, declaring him morally unfit 
for the presidency and ignoring his resignation faxed in from self-imposed 
exile in Japan. Montesinos, who is believed to be protected by military 
allies, has been in hiding since his return to Peru last month from 
a failed asylum bid in Panama. Salas' testimony came before a congressional 
committee set up to investigate Montesinos' reputed web of money laundering, 
narcotics trafficking and influence peddling. Salas said he went to 
Montesinos' intelligence headquarters to try to persuade the spy chief 
to step aside. ``When I arrived at Montesinos' office, not only was 
he waiting for me, but also all of the commanding generals of the 
army and the chief of the national police,'' Salas said. ``You must 
understand, if I go, everyone goes. If the king falls, the servant 
falls,'' Salas recalled Montesinos saying. Salas also gave details 
of the widespread telephone tapping carried out by Montesinos at the 
highest levels of government. He said when he phoned Fujimori to discuss 
whether to allow Montesinos to stay in power or try to force him to 
resign that the president replied that there was ``always a third 
option'' but did not elaborate. He said Montesinos, who had been listening 
in on the call, phoned him two minutes later to ask what Fujimori 
meant when he referred to a third option. He said he later organized 
Montesinos' trip to Panama. The arrangements were made with Panamanian 
officials after the Organization of American States and various governments 
intervened to find a country that would take the shadowy spymaster, 
he said. But Montesinos' returned to Peru on Oct. 23 after his asylum 
bid in Panama failed. Salas said Fujimori fell into a deep depression. 
``He was totally depressed,'' Salas repeated several times during 
his testimony, adding that when Fujimori left the country two weeks 
ago, he appeared a broken man, barely able to govern. Salas said he 
refused to meet in the Government Palace with interim President Valentin 
Paniagua, sworn in last week to replace Fujimori, warning Paniagua 
that the palace was bugged. Salas stepped down as prime minister last 
weekend when Paniagua swore in a new cabinet.