In a fitting end to a tournament that featured the top eight players 
in the world, this year's four Grand Slam winners are in the semifinals 
of the Masters Cup. The semifinals will match up two former top-ranked 
players against two young stars who have dominated the points race 
for the No. 1 position in the rankings. Pete Sampras, the dominant 
player of the last decade, was scheduled to face Gustavo Kuerten on 
Saturday, and Andre Agassi was to take on Marat Safin. Agassi began 
the year with a win at the Australian Open; Kuerten won the French 
Open; Sampras triumphed in Wimbledon; and Safin beat Sampras to win 
the U.S. Open in September. That loss was on Sampras' mind, especially 
since he had not played a tournament in between the U.S. Open and 
the Masters Cup. To reach the semis, Sampras had to beat Safin, who 
was already assured of a place in the semifinals. Sampras won 12 of 
the first 13 points of the match to set the tone, and Safin was never 
able to put up a challenge as Sampras won 6-3, 6-2 on Friday with 
an impressive display of vintage tennis. ``You always remember your 
losses much more than your wins,'' Sampras said. ``I'm a competitor. 
I wanted to get back at him. It's a big match _ either I win or go 
home.'' Sampras was in such command that an exasperated Safin smashed 
two rackets. ``When you realize that you have no chance at all, you 
cannot pass him at all, not down the line, not crosscourt, not lob, 
nothing, you understand you are doing something ridiculous,'' Safin 
said. The loss prevented Safin from clinching the No. 1 ranking for 
the year, but he can still do that by beating Agassi. Kuerten can 
still take the No. 1 from Safin, but he has to win the tournament 
and hope that the Russian loses Saturday. Kuerten reached the semis 
by beating Yevgeny Kafelnikov, the Olympic champion, 6-3, 6-4. ``I 
am not even thinking of No. 1,'' Kuerten said. ``I never expected 
to get this far and I am just trying to enjoy it.'' Agassi, the only 
unbeaten player in the last four, beat Magnus Norman 6-3, 6-2. He 
won the tournament in 1990. ``If we're playing our best, we're certainly 
very difficult to beat,'' Agassi said of himself and Sampras. ``We 
both won our groups and certainly this week we're stepping it up.'' 
Sampras is seeking a record sixth title in the season-ending event.