As concerns grow about the difficulty of finding an impartial jury 
for a major terrorism trial scheduled to start next month, the judge 
in the case says he plans to screen at least 1,500 people, one of 
the largest jury pools ever in a federal criminal case. The trial 
set to start on Jan. 3 in federal District Court in Manhattan involves 
four defendants indicted on charges that they participated in a global 
terrorism conspiracy that included the bombings of two U.S. Embassies 
in East Africa in 1998. More than 200 people were killed and thousands 
of others were injured in the two embassy blasts, which prosecutors 
say were organized by Osama bin Laden, who has been indicted in the 
bombings but remains a fugitive and is believed to be living in Afghanistan. 
The bombing suspects are being tried in New York because federal prosecutors 
in Manhattan were actively investigating bin Laden for other terrorism 
acts predating the embassy explosions. The authorities also are investigating 
whether bin Laden was involved in the bombing of the destroyer Cole 
in Yemen in October, which killed 17 Americans. The four defendants 
on trial in New York have not been accused of any role in that act. 
The decision to screen such a large pool of prospective jurors stems 
from concerns by the judge, Leonard B. Sand, and lawyers on both sides 
that publicity about the attacks and the continuing investigation 
of bin Laden's suspected involvement in other acts of terrorism will 
cause large numbers of people to be excused or removed from jury service. 
The trial needs 12 jurors and six alternates. It is also thought that 
many prospective jurors will be reluctant to serve because the trial 
is expected to last at least nine months, requiring them to seek extended 
leaves of absence from their jobs. Yet another reason for calling 
so many jurors is that two defendants face capital charges, the first 
federal death penalty case to go before a jury in Manhattan in nearly 
half a century. More prospective jurors are likely to be excused as 
lawyers for both sides petition Sand to drop them because of their 
views on the death penalty. The judge has indicated that all lawyers 
in the case must be sensitive to economic and personal hardships created 
by such a trial. ``In many areas, we are treading on new territory,'' 
Sand said in a recent hearing. ``We will be selecting a jury in a 
case that will take over nine months, which involves terrorism, which 
involves viewing perhaps pictures of blood and gore, and which involves 
the death penalty.'' He said it seemed likely that ``a large majority 
of those initially called will seek to be excused.'' A criminal defense 
lawyer who is not involved in the case, Gerald L. Shargel, observed, 
``There's no question about the fact that this is going to be one 
of the most difficult jury selections in history.'' The case will 
be the fifth major terrorism trial held in New York in eight years, 
beginning with the trial in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. None 
of the earlier trials, though, required such a large jury pool. Nor 
was the death penalty a factor. Lawyers say the largest pool was about 
600 people who were screened for the 1995 trial of a group of men 
convicted of plotting to blow up the United Nations and other landmarks 
in New York.