When Slobodan Milosevic emerged in public last week, live and in color, 
to be re-elected president of his Socialist Party of Serbia, he sent 
a little shiver down a lot of spines. But Milosevic is today considered 
more of a spent force than a threat, less the evil plotter than someone 
who still doesn't understand quite what hit him on Sept. 24, when 
Serbs voted for Vojislav Kostunica and then banded together to pull 
down the old regime. Nonetheless, the Socialists are still expected 
to be the largest opposition party after Serbia's crucial elections 
on Dec. 23, getting up to 15 percent of the vote. But even senior 
U.S. officials believe that having Milosevic as its president will 
delay any revival of the party. In fact, Yugoslavia has moved to a 
new stage, with a new, hidden drama: the effort of Kostunica, the 
federal president, to translate his extraordinary popularity as a 
hero of democracy into enduring political power in Serbia, where real 
power lies. According to all the opinion polls, the 18-party coalition 
behind Kostunica should gain a big majority in the December voting. 
But it is a diverse bunch, and strains between Kostunica and his coalition 
ally and political rival, Zoran Djindjic, are expected to break the 
coalition apart within a year. Ever since the Serbs forced Milosevic 
to resign on Oct. 6, however, the West has been tripping over itself 
to help Kostunica and the prospect of a normal, benign Serbia. Western 
leaders have provided him quick emergency aid and swallowed any criticism 
of his performance. In Vienna, at last week's meeting of the Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the slightly rumpled Kostunica 
was greeted like a star, with even Austria's Joerg Haider attending 
a lunch in his honor. But as Yugoslavia's federal president, Kostunica 
is formally in charge of the military, foreign relations and the air-traffic 
system, and not much else. The Serbian government controls most of 
everyday life, including the police (both secret and regular), and 
it is Djindjic, as the leader of the largest party in the coalition, 
who is expected to become Serbian prime minister. Kostunica has already 
succeeded in demanding the same number of seats on the coalition's 
parliamentary list for his once-marginal party as Djindjic will get 
for his much larger one. But Kostunica will be able only to influence 
events in Serbia, not control them. That is because Kostunica is the 
president of a legal entity, Yugoslavia, whose existence is something 
of a collective illusion, and whose main constituent parts are restive 
or in flux: _ Kosovo, the majority-Albanian province of Serbia run 
by the United Nations and NATO-led troops, is increasingly explosive, 
with armed Albanian militants infiltrating Serbia and killing policemen. 
_ Montenegro, Serbia's sister republic in Yugoslavia, is still pressing 
for independence despite Milosevic's fall, to the intense annoyance 
of the same West that backed Montenegro so lavishly when it seemed 
a little anti-Milosevic aircraft carrier. _ Serbia, with 95 percent 
of Yugoslavia's population, is being run by a shaky provisional government 
full of Milosevic supporters, which is why the elections matter so 
much. Washington and the West do not want what remains of Yugoslavia 
to fall apart. First, because it would leave Kostunica, whose probity 
has impressed them, essentially jobless. And second, because its further 
breakup would create new crises and expectations for independence 
in the region _ not just in Kosovo and Montenegro, but in the Republika 
Srpska (the Serb-dominated part of Bosnia-Herzegovina) and a deeply 
divided Macedonia. ``The battle to come is still Djindjic-Kostunica,'' 
said a senior European diplomat in Belgrade, where the parlor game 
is to guess along what lines the democratic coalition will split. 
``Come January, with an active, functioning government in Serbia, 
Kostunica and the federal government are going to look very pale. 
A lot of the donor community, including governments, might prefer 
to deal with Djindjic.'' Djindjic is also a democrat with a history 
of opposition, so what's the problem? In fact, the two men distrust 
each other intensely, with the quiet, legally minded Kostunica regarding 
the elegant, entrepreneurial Djindjic as unreliable and even unscrupulous. 
That is a worry shared by many who admire Djindjic's organizational 
skills and who fear, along with Djindjic, that Kostunica is too professorial 
and indecisive, and has not moved quickly enough to dismantle the 
old regime. Aleksandar Tijanic, a slashing writer and analyst, summarizes 
the problem neatly, if a bit unfairly. ``Kostunica regards Parliament 
as a cathedral,'' Tijanic said. ``Djindjic regards it as a casino.'' 
For the moment, however, the test for Kostunica has been Kosovo, where 
Albanian militants in the Presevo Valley of Serbia have been trying 
to provoke him into overreacting with military force, as Milosevic 
did so often, undermining Belgrade's newly friendly relations with 
the West. Kostunica's enemies, like Milosevic, were quick to exploit 
the violence and call it a sign of Serbia's new weakness. Djindjic, 
too, unpopular for his ties to NATO countries in the Kosovo war, was 
quick to portray himself as a Serbian patriot, warning loudly that 
Serbia would defend itself. Kostunica understood he had to be seen 
to threaten force, but could not use it. So the army moved tanks to 
the border of the security zone from which the Kosovo peace agreement 
bans them and brought journalists down to film their resolve. Next, 
he tried to turn the crisis into a test for the West. In Vienna, he 
criticized NATO and the United Nations for failing to do their job 
in Kosovo while urging them to seal the border. NATO and Western officials, 
eager to help him and nervous about renewed Albanian militancy, promised 
a new crackdown. Even Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, whom 
Serbs regard as the champion of the bombing campaign against them, 
a campaign Kostunica opposed, praised him. She assured his foreign 
minister that U.S. forces would do all they could to rein in the very 
fighters they called allies less than a year ago in Kosovo. ``Everyone 
wants to get Kostunica and the democrats past this election,'' a senior 
Western official said. ``If anyone says they're thinking much beyond 
Dec. 23, they're lying.''