Flanked by Secret Service agents and pursued by a throng of reporters, 
Sen.-elect Hillary Rodham Clinton made the short trip Tuesday from 
the White House to Capitol Hill for an orientation dubbed ``Senate 
School.'' The first lady joined 10 other freshman senators for a whirlwind 
day of seminars, tours and class photos, capped off with a formal 
dinner at the Supreme Court building. Her date: the president. The 
Senate's most famous new face kept a decidedly low profile most of 
the day, seemingly intent on ensuring she wouldn't overshadow other 
freshmen. Capitol Police kept reporters away as she moved between 
meetings. ``It's been great,'' was all Clinton would say as she rushed 
into the Senate lunch, a huge smile on her face. At one point, as 
photographers penned behind a rope line craned for a view of her leaving 
the Old Senate Chamber, the first lady and her Secret Service detail 
ducked down one of the Capitol's many back corridors. ``She's done 
a very good job of trying not to single herself out or act in a way 
that appears to be self-promotive,'' said New Jersey Sen.-elect Jon 
Corzine, a Democrat who spent a record $65 million to win his seat. 
Sen.-elect Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., agreed. ``She has been really 
sensitive to the fact that a lot of focus comes with her being here 
and I think she's really working hard to be a member of the team and 
not to be the center of attention,'' said Stabenow, who is now a member 
of the House. Clinton is among a record four women in this year's 
11-member freshman class. The class includes nine Democrats, two Republicans, 
three millionaires, three governors and a widow. Incoming senator 
Jean Carnahan was appointed Monday by Missouri Gov. Roger Wilson to 
replace her husband, Gov. Mel Carnahan, who was killed Oct. 16 in 
a plane crash but beat incumbent Republican John Ashcroft on Election 
Day anyway. The appointment will take effect Jan. 3. Carnahan, who 
like Clinton has never held public office, said she chatted with the 
first lady during orientation. ``She's looking for housing, like we 
are,'' Carnahan told reporters before entering the office of Missouri's 
senior senator, Republican Kit Bond. The nine freshman Democrats began 
the day at 8:30 a.m. with coffee in Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle's 
office. They then trailed Daschle, D-S.D., to Senate Majority Leader 
Trent Lott's office for more coffee. Lott, R-Miss., struck a more 
conciliatory tone toward Clinton than he had shortly after her election, 
when he said she'd ``have to get used'' to being one of 100 members. 
``When she raises her hand and says, `I do,' she's a senator. And 
she'll be treated accordingly,'' Lott said Tuesday. ``And she, I'm 
sure, is going to be a very diligent senator, work hard, get committee 
assignments where she has a real interest, and will be a very important 
part of this body, just like every other senator is.'' Clinton has 
expressed an interest in serving on the Finance, Appropriations and 
Education committees, but it's unclear what she might get. The incoming 
senators attended a seminar on life in the Senate that addressed ``issues 
such as staffing, scheduling, early frustrations and common mistakes.'' 
Then they received a tutorial by the Senate's unofficial historian, 
Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., on the formation and history of the Senate. 
A photo session for Talk magazine occurred before dinner. President 
Clinton skipped the luncheon for the income senators' spouses, largely 
because of the immense security that would have been needed in the 
Capitol. Mrs. Clinton's spokesman, Howard Wolfson, said she spent 
much of the day awe-struck by her new job. ``She was excited,'' he 
said. ``She sounded like she was going to her first day of school.'' 
Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, said Clinton will not be judged 
by her past run-ins with the GOP. ``I think she certainly comes with 
more awareness and notoriety than most incoming freshmen senators, 
but I think she will be accepted for what she decides to be and I 
don't think any of her past differences will be an issue,'' Hutchison 
said. ``I think she will go forward with a blank slate and she will 
make her career.''