A Moscow court on Wednesday gave the maximum sentence of 20 years 
at hard labor to Edmond Pope, a former U.S. naval intelligence officer 
accused of trying to acquire technology for a rocket-propelled torpedo. 
The verdict was read by Judge Nina Barkova as Pope stood in a steel 
cage, holding hands through the bars with his wife, Cheri. He shook 
his head in disbelief as the judge read out her reasons for handing 
down the maximum sentence. Pope's attorney, Pavel Astakhov, denounced 
the verdict as unfair and a throwback to the Stalinist era. He said 
he had seven days to file an appeal. He said he could not comment 
yet on whether President Vladimir Putin would consider releasing Pope 
for health reasons and allow him to return to the United States. Pope 
has a rare form of bone cancer that has gone into remission, but his 
family believes he is seriously ill from the effects of 246 days of 
confinement at Lefortovo Prison. Pope, a businessman, was arrested 
in April in the midst of a transaction to acquire technological reports 
about Russia's superfast Shkval torpedo, a rocket-propelled torpedo 
that travels 230 mph underwater. The technology represented a significant 
advance in submarine warfare. No similar weapon exists in Western 
navies, experts said. The first intelligence about the torpedo and 
its use on nuclear-powered submarines became public after the fall 
of the Soviet Union. The torpedo was taken out of service after that, 
but updated models have been tested in the last few years, and the 
military competition apparently continues. For Washington and Moscow, 
the Pope case has become an uncomfortable throwback to a Cold War-era 
of spy rivalry at a time when Russia and the United States profess 
that there is no longer such competition. The trial began on Oct. 
18 under protest from the United States. Astakhov introduced documents 
that he said showed that Pope and a professor at Bauman State Technical 
University, Anatoly Babkin, had been trading unclassified information 
about torpedo technology when they were both arrested in April.