A Moscow judge handed down the maximum sentence of 20 years at hard 
labor against a former U.S. naval intelligence officer, Edmond Pope, 
on Wednesday after a seven-week espionage trial behind closed doors. 
The 54-year-old businessman was accused in April of obtaining secret 
plans and technical reports for a torpedo, the Shkval, or Squall in 
English, a rocket-propelled underwater projectile that travels at 
230 mph. The verdict marked the first espionage conviction against 
a Westerner in Russia in the decade since the end of the Cold War, 
though both Moscow and Washington have expelled alleged spies from 
each other's capitals in recent years. The Clinton administration 
immediately condemned the verdict and called on President Vladimir 
Putin to release Pope because he suffers from a rare form of bone 
cancer. ``The verdict is unjustifiable, it is flat-out wrong, and 
it has cast a shadow over our relationship,'' a White House spokesman, 
P.J. Crowley, said in Washington. ``We remain very concerned that 
his health has deteriorated in recent days,'' Crowley said, though 
he provided no details. ``We have been making clear to the Russian 
government that they should move to release Mr. Pope on humanitarian 
grounds.'' It seemed clear that although further legal appeals are 
possible, the fate of Pope is most likely to be decided on the scales 
of diplomatic relations as Putin prepares to do business with a new 
U.S. president. The trial's conclusion allows Putin to say that he 
backed the tough line of his security forces in protecting secrets, 
while he could garner credit internationally by freeing Pope. The 
judge, Nina Barkova, read out the 20-page judgment as Pope stood in 
a steel cage, holding hands through the bars with his wife, Cheri, 
who looked somber and distraught in a red sweater and navy-blue jacket. 
During the reading of the verdict, Pope shook his head repeatedly 
in disbelief, his lawyer said, as the judge dismissed all defense 
arguments. Pope's congressman, John Peterson, R-Pa., was also present 
during the reading of the verdict and later condemned the secret proceeding. 
``It is astounding that no American has ever seen the charges and 
no American was allowed to see the trial,'' he said. The congressman 
mocked the evidence that had been cited, saying that Pope's alleged 
profile as a spy was buttressed by Russian claims that he was a member 
of the Navy Credit Union and the American Legion. ``I now call on 
President Putin and President Clinton to resolve this issue so there 
is a future for our two countries,'' Peterson said. Pope's lawyer, 
Pavel Astakhov, failed during the trial to convince Barkova that the 
information Pope purchased for $28,000 from Professor Anatoly Babkin 
of Moscow's Bauman State Technical University was also available in 
textbooks and other unclassified _ or ``open'' _ reference sources 
in Russia. The Squall torpedo's designer, Genrikh Uvarov, who testified 
at the trial and who agreed that much, but not all, of the information 
that was part of the transaction was open or unclassified, according 
to Astakhov's account, has in recent years been a booster for selling 
the Squall technology to foreigners. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) Writing 
in Military Parade magazine in April 1996, Uvarov invited ``foreign 
companies'' to work with Russia ``to carry out mutual research and 
design work'' on ``various versions of high-speed underwater rockets'' 
based on the Squall. But Mr. Uvarov testified that Babkin may have 
offered Pope too much information on the secrets of the Squall's rocket 
fuel, according to Astakhov, who challenged that assertion in court. 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) After final arguments by the lawyers, Pope defended 
himself, pointing out to the judge that before coming to Russia, he 
had taken care to draft a contract with Bauman State Technical University 
that provided that no secret information was to be included in the 
transaction. ``Although I spent eight months in prison in Russia, 
I am not a spy,'' he declared, according to his lawyer. ``The only 
decision that you must make is to let me go home to my family.'' Pope's 
lawyer also questioned on Wednesday how the judge could have written 
a 20-page verdict in two-and-a-half hours after closing arguments 
were concluded, suggesting that the guilty verdict was pre-ordained 
by higher authorities. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) He called Barkova's opinion 
``biased and unjust'' and compared her judicial behavior to the Stalin 
era. ``We haven't seen that kind of thing since 1937,'' he said, adding, 
``This case will go down in the history of jurisprudence for the number 
of mistakes committed.'' (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Pope has seven days to 
appeal the verdict to Russia's supreme court, and his lawyer said 
no decision had been made. He also said he was aware of discussions 
of the case within the Russian government, but that a political decision 
would have to be made by Putin. The Russian president gave no reaction 
to the verdict, but last week Putin issued a decree, the text of which 
has not been published, setting forth new procedures to license and 
regulate the sale of military technologies. nn One of the problems 
throughout the closed proceeding was that all public characterizations 
of the evidence presented against Pope came from U.S. officials and 
Pope's defense lawyer, who has asserted at times that key witnesses 
have recanted all or part of their testimonies. These assertions have 
been impossible to verify because most of the witnesses have been 
enjoined from speaking to foreign reporters, or are simply afraid 
to because of the climate the case has created. Astakhov told reporters 
on Wednesday that if the court record proves that Pope did receive 
classified information, ``it is not the problem of a private businessman, 
but a problem of Russia'' to clarify laws on the handling of state 
secrets. A senior official of Russia's counter-intelligence service, 
Gen. Alexsander Zdanovich, said on state television Wednesday night 
that he was pleased with the verdict and that the full weight of the 
Russian government's evidence has yet to be made public. ``Russia 
has its secrets and we will do our best to protect them,'' he said, 
adding, ``I must say that when the verdict comes into force we will 
make public some more facts and we will make a film so that people 
can make their own judgment.'' Pope was arrested along with a colleague, 
Daniel H. Kielly, 68, of Penn State University's Applied Research 
Laboratory, where Pope also worked on projects related to naval weapons 
development. For some reason, Kielly was set free and allowed to return 
to the United States. Babkin, 70, was also arrested and charged with 
divulging state secrets. But he has not been put on trial due to a 
heart problem. Babkin was a witness for the prosecution, and a statement 
by the professor was entered saying that he had given Pope classified 
information about the manufacture of the Shkval's rocket fuel. Later, 
according to Astakhov, Babkin said the statement was given under duress 
just prior to the first of two heart attacks. Babkin has not spoken 
publicly to confirm or deny his testimony against Pope, but his wife, 
speaking in a television interview during the trial, said his statements 
to investigators were made under pressure. Russian security officers 
have denied that they pressured Babkin, and they said that his statement 
was taken in the presence of an attorney and his interrogation was 
videotaped. After Wednesday's verdict, Cheri Pope hugged her husband 
through the bars to say goodbye. She left the courtroom without commenting. 
Her congressman, Peterson, said that she was too ``angry'' to make 
a public statement. On Tuesday, she expressed the fear that her husband 
might die in a Russian prison. On state television late Wednesday, 
Pope made his first public remarks from Moscow's Lefortovo Prison. 
Smiling and appearing to be in good form notwithstanding the verdict, 
he said without rancor and in reply to a question that if he were 
pardoned he would like to return to Russia, ``but I am afraid that 
my wife wouldn't let me.'' He said the 246-day ordeal since his arrest 
has been ``too hard'' on his wife, ``too hard on my family.'' Nonetheless, 
he continued, he has deep respect for Russia and expressed no regret 
about coming to Russia to do business. ``I regret what's happened 
to me, but I don't regret coming to Russia,'' he said, ``I have gained 
a huge experience of meeting people.'' He also talked of Russia and 
the United States ``getting old together'' and ``learning how to cooperate 
with each other.''