With televisions in the White House tuned to the images of protesters 
seizing the Parliament in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, President Clinton 
stepped into the Rose Garden on Thursday to encourage them on, at 
once offering American support while making it clear that the considerable 
American military presence in the region would not intervene. ``I 
think the people are trying to get their country back,'' Clinton said, 
just as it was becoming clear that the security forces would stand 
back as protesters took over government buildings and the central 
television broadcast center. ``The people of Serbia have made their 
opinion clear,'' Clinton said. ``They did it when they voted peacefully 
and quietly, and now they're doing it in the streets.'' The consensus 
among U.S. intelligence officials, senior military officers and diplomats 
interviewed on Thursday is that the era of Slobodan Milosevic was 
coming to an end. But they also said they were awaiting formal announcements 
from the security forces _ in particular the Yugoslav army and the 
Interior Ministry's special police _ that they supported Vojislav 
Kostunica as the winner of the presidential election last month. That, 
the officials said, would be definitive. Sandy Berger, the president's 
national security adviser, warned that the biggest risk was that Milosevic 
would marshall some part of the military in a violent attempt toward 
rolling back the protests. ``This was a dramatic day, and it is difficult 
for me to imagine how Milosovic might reconstitute his power,'' Berger 
said in a telephone interview. ``But we have to speak with a note 
of caution because he is capable of making a last stand. I don't think 
this is over yet. But it will be awfully hard for him to put it back 
in the bottle.'' U.S. officials said that Milosevic is probably still 
in Serbia, seeking refuge, temporarily at least, in one of the Camp 
David-style retreats or command bunkers built outside of Belgrade. 
These officials said they do not believe Milosevic had fled on Thursday 
for Belarus or any other country that might offer him a safe haven 
from arrest on charges for war crimes issued by the tribunal at The 
Hague, Netherlands. ``We don't know where he is, but it's over, he's 
done,'' said one four-star military officer who was apprised during 
the day about developments in Yugoslavia. The overwhelming emotion 
in the White House was one of joy. Milosevic's violent efforts at 
maintaining a Serb-dominated Yugoslavia had predated Clinton's arrival 
in the White House but now he was on the verge of being forced out 
on the last days of Clinton's watch. ``If you can't get Middle East 
peace,'' one senior official said, ``this may be the next best thing.'' 
Several senior administration officials said that their first priority 
was assuring that Milosevic leaves the country _ even if his destination 
put him out of reach of international law. ``Ultimately there should 
be some accountability,'' said one official who had participated in 
the decisions to intervene in Bosnia and then Kosovo. ``But you also 
have to be practical and clear about the sequence here, and first 
things are first. The first thing is for him to step down, and for 
the transition to take place peacefully, and for him to get out of 
the country. And we are not about to get in the way of that.'' Clinton's 
comments on Thursday _ first at the White House, then in asides during 
a speech at Princeton University _ were directed at encouraging the 
popular uprising while making it clear that the United States was 
keeping its distance. Clinton explicitly ruled out using the approximately 
11,000 American troops in neighboring Bosnia and Kosovo, or the naval 
and marine forces that have been conducting exercises nearby in the 
Adriatic Sea. ``I don't believe it's an appropriate case for military 
intervention,'' Clinton said, ``and I don't believe that the United 
States should say or do anything which would only strengthen Milosevic's 
hand.'' But Washington has hardly been shy about offering incentives 
to the people of Serbia to take the kind of action that unfolded on 
Thursday. The administration has funneled money to voter education 
groups and the independent media in Serbia. Clinton has often said 
that he is willing to lift economic sanctions against the country 
as soon as Milosovic is gone. ``The people of Serbia have spoken with 
their ballot, they have spoken on the streets,'' Clinton said at Princeton 
on Thursday afternoon. ``I hope the hour is near when their voices 
will be heard and we can welcome them to democracy, to Europe, to 
the world's community. And when they do, we will move as quickly as 
possible to lift the sanctions and build the kind of responsible partnership 
that the people there deserve.'' That would allow American and other 
international aid money to pour in, and permit investors to rebuild 
the shattered country. While the process could take years, officials 
on Thursday were pointing to the speed with which Eastern European 
countries turned from dumping dictators to opening factories. But 
they made no mention of the latest parallel, the popular ousting of 
President Suharto of Indonesia in 1998. While celebrated at the time, 
it led to two years of ever-worsening economic and political chaos. 
Still, the uprising in Belgrade was celebrated from the White House 
to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright's plane. Flying back from 
Mideast peace talks in Egypt on Thursday, she said, ``The important 
point now is for Kostunica to be recognized as president.'' And she 
promised that, with European foreign ministers, she would work ``to 
make sure this proceeds in a way with a minimum of violence and that 
the people be heard without violence.'' On the presidential campaign 
trail, both major party candidates expressed support for Milosevic's 
opponents in Yugoslavia. Gov. George W. Bush, the Republican nominee, 
said, ``Our country must work closely with our allies in Europe and 
the international community including Russia to pressure Mr. Milosevic 
to go.'' Vice President Al Gore, the Democratic nominee, said: ``We 
call upon Milosevic to get out of power. It will be taken from him 
if he does not, because the people of Serbia have spoken and now they 
are rising up.''