apart from the florida contest, other news tonight. another major 
concern in washington, a growing threat by terrorists against america's 
top national security officials. and behind the threats, osama bin 
laden, the wealthy saudi arabian who most experts consider the most 
dangerous terrorist in the world today. nbc's andrea mitchell tonight 
with exclusive new information on the threat and the response. andrea? 
tom, tonight congress is being asked to spend millions of dollars 
for protecting secretary of state madeleine albright for six months 
after she leaves office because of terrorist threats. madeleine albright 
the target, say security officials, of specific threats that won't 
disappear once she leaves office. the higher level of threats, one 
of the subjects covered in george bush's first cia briefing yesterday. 
and the warning ought to be that as we decide this election people 
should not try to take advantage of our nation. threats that start 
with the embassy bombings in africa two years ago accelerate with 
nato's attack on yugoslavia, become even more deadly this year when 
officials say osama bin laden puts albright at the top of his assassination 
list. and then two months ago the attack on the "uss cole." the vulnerability 
and the threats don't end automatically upon leaving office. in fact 
cia director george tenet says tonight the u.s. is vulnerable at home 
not just abroad. we're in an environment where we're literally inundated 
with threat warnings all the time. making sense of disparate facts 
sometimes is very difficult to do in a timely manner. officials tell 
nbc news defense secretary bill cohen was also targeted. two incidents 
on a trip last month to the middle east, where intelligence officials 
say the violence raging between israel and palestinians feeds anti-u.s. 
fervor. despite the threats, critics say round-the-clock security 
for former officials is a bad precedent. we may be going overboard 
here a little bit. before we start doing something like this, i want 
to be sure why we are doing it, because there is a big cost. still 
top officials say that round-the-clock protection will be offered 
to the next secretary of state, possibly colin powell in a bush white 
house, as soon as he is nominated. tom? thanks andrea mitchell tonight.