American businessman Edmund Pope today formally asked Russian President 
Vladimir Putin for a pardon. Pope was sentenced yesterday to 20 years 
hard labor after a Moscow court found him guilty of spying. Prosecutors 
said Pope had illegally obtained classified blueprints for a new Russian 
high-speed torpedo. Pope, whose company analyzes foreign maritime 
equipment, has maintained his innocence. He is the first American 
citizen to be jailed for espionage since the end of the cold war. 
The World's Nenad Chebeck is in Moscow. Nenad, yesterday Mr. Pope 
was sentenced despite an appeal for clemency by President Clinton. 
Why has he taken this legal option? Does he have no confidence in 
the courts? Well, I would say it is pretty clear that he has no confidence 
in the Russian judicial system. He did have an option of appealing 
to the Russian Supreme Court but frankly this is a more likely and 
a faster way to freedom, I would say. Because going through the appeals 
process is going to take months. He is known to be of ill health. 
He definitely wants to get out of the Lefortovo prison and it would 
appear by the latest signs that it is going to be the right way. Going 
through an Appeals Court would take a lot of time and the outcome 
would be highly uncertain. So Nenad, what's the timetable here? The 
request went to Putin. Putin in turn passes it on or has passed it 
on to the Presidential Pardons Commission. Is that correct? Yes, it 
has all happened actually very, very quickly. After the court cases 
dragged on for a couple of months and Pope has been in jail since 
April the 3rd, the ball really started rolling today. He wrote to 
Putin. Putin's office announced that the President has passed on the 
case to the Presidential Pardons Commission and today already we had 
the head of the commission appearing on Russian State television and 
saying that he will recommend a pardon to President Vladimir Putin. 
Now this commission is due to meet tomorrow but it is very difficult 
to envisage the commission not doing what the head of the commission 
has said it will do. The Presidential Pardons Commission in Russia, 
is that a relatively new institution? I would assume this being the 
first cold war spy case in 40 years in Russia that a certain number 
of institutions that are being involved, perhaps are being involved 
for the first time. Well, there are really no precedents here Tony 
because, as you mentioned, the last trial of an alleged foreign spy, 
was actually the trial of Gary Powers way back in 1961. And Gary Powers 
was shot down over Russia, so his guilt was fairly firmly established 
and ever since then any suspected spies were usually either sort of 
simply kicked out of the country, expelled, or they were arrested 
and then swapped for Russian spies arrested in western countries. 
The speed with which Mr. Putin seems to have responded to events here, 
is that any indication that perhaps he has found the whole incident 
embarrassing? It may be that this is simply a case which is not important 
on a wider scale for Putin, that he has shown what he needed to show 
to the Russian public, which is that the system is there, the system 
is going strong, it is taking care of the state secrets and, you know 
, the police is doing it's job, the Federal Security Service is doing 
its job. But now that that has been done with, now that we have had 
a conviction in court he does not see the necessity of pursuing the 
whole thing any further. And in order to appear magnanimous in the 
eyes of the western public opinion, certainly, I guess that those 
are the reasons which prompted him to move in the direction he has 
moved. And one would assume that the effort is also being made to 
make sure that US-Russian relations aren't seriously affected by this? 
Yes, because there have been a number of calls in the American Congress, 
for example, to introduce economic sanctions against Russia for this. 
The administration itself has not shown any willingness to get involved 
too deeply and certainly has not shown any willingness to introduce 
sanctions against Russia. But we do know that President Clinton has 
spoken to Vladimir Putin about this. We do know that the Secretary 
of State Madeleine Albright has raised the issue a number of times, 
so this will certainly help smooth the way towards the future of American 
administration, as and when there is one. The World's Nenad Chebeck 
in Moscow. Thanks again, Nenad. You are welcome, Tony.