Russia's presidential pardons commission recommended on Friday that 
President Vladimir Putin free U.S. prisoner Edmond Pope, who was convicted 
of spying earlier in the week and sentenced to 20 years in prison. 
``Pope is a sick man who has gone through a lot, and he should be 
let go,'' commission head Anatoly Pristavkin said. Pristavkin had 
said earlier that Putin usually abides by the committee's recommendations, 
and on Friday he said he expects the president to act quickly. But 
other members of the commission cautioned that the president could 
not pardon Pope until the trial court's verdict goes into effect in 
seven days. In Washington, White House national security spokesman 
P.J. Crowley said ``it remains our position that Edmond Pope should 
be released, and we hope that President Putin will act on the recommendation 
of the commission.'' Pope, 54, was convicted of espionage Wednesday 
despite his claims of innocence and sentenced to a maximum-security 
prison. He and his family have begged for a pardon, saying they fear 
the bone cancer he suffered has returned. Pardons commission member 
Marietta Chudakova said Friday's unanimous decision by the commission 
was a protest against ``alarming signs in the atmosphere today.'' 
``The investigative and judicial organs of our country have remained 
in the Soviet era to a greater extent than society (as a whole),'' 
the Interfax news agency quoted her as saying. Pristavkin said members 
of the pardons commission had found the court's verdict quite harsh. 
``But we do not judge or discuss the court's decision, but instead 
base our actions on the laws of charity and humanity,'' he said. Pope, 
from State College, Pa., is a former naval officer and the founder 
of CERF Technologies, International, which specializes in studying 
foreign maritime equipment. At his Moscow trial, Russia's Federal 
Security Service said he had illegally obtained classified plans for 
a high-speed underwater torpedo, the Shkval. On Thursday, Pope appealed 
to Putin to free him. ``This letter is my appeal to free me from prison 
to enable me to return to Pennsylvania to join my family and to improve 
my health,'' Pope's lawyer, Pavel Astakhov, quoted the letter as saying. 
``I feel bad and need urgent medical aid,'' Astakhov read from a Russian 
translation of the letter. ``I appeal to you, asking you to resolve 
the question as soon as possible, as my father is terminally ill and 
I would like to see him for the last time.'' The case has cast a shadow 
over U.S.-Russian relations ever since Pope was arrested April 3 and 
jailed in Moscow's foreboding Lefortovo Prison. Pope has insisted 
on his innocence, saying the technology he obtained was not secret 
because it had already been sold abroad and published in open sources. 
Pope's defense lawyers said the court was heavily biased in favor 
of the Federal Security Service, and the U.S. government said the 
Russian prosecutors had failed to prove their case. Pope's supporters 
also have pressed for humanitarian intervention because of Pope's 
fragile health. Pope has suffered from a rare form of bone cancer 
which was in remission when he traveled to Russia. He also has high 
blood pressure, says his wife, Cheri. She said Thursday she is ``hoping 
and praying right now that President Putin, when he promised us that 
he would help, that it would be very soon and I can take my husband 
home.'' Putin had said during a visit to the United States in September 
that Pope's judicial process would have to be completed before he 
would intervene. Russian media have noted that his stance has allowed 
the security services to flex their muscles while leaving the way 
open for him to demonstrate humaneness. The Segodnya daily wrote Friday 
that the Kremlin could ``kill several birds with one stone'' by giving 
the U.S. administration the gift of Pope's freedom. ``The FSB can 
save face, Putin can demonstrate that he's not beholden to outside 
pressure and Russian scientists are given a lesson about the consequences 
of 'para-scientific' contacts with foreigners,'' the newspaper noted.