President Clinton on Friday called Russian President Vladimir Putin 
to urge him once again to free American businessman Edmond Pope, who 
was convicted of espionage earlier this week. Clinton spoke on the 
phone with Putin for about 10 minutes just after he made a foreign 
policy speech at the University of Nebraska in Kearney, Neb. The president 
encouraged Pope's release on humanitarian grounds because Pope is 
sick, White House press secretary Jake Siewert told reporters in Nebraska. 
``I'm not going to characterize Putin's response, but we're going 
to keep working on it,'' Siewert said. Earlier in the day, the White 
House welcomed a Russian commission's recommendation that Putin pardon 
Pope. ``It remains our position that Edmond Pope should be released, 
and we hope that President Putin will act on the recommendation of 
the commission,'' said P.J. Crowley, White House national security 
spokesman. A Moscow court on Wednesday convicted Pope, of State College, 
Pa., of espionage and sentenced the 54-year-old to 20 years in a maximum-security 
prison. Russian authorities said Pope, a former Navy officer, had 
illegally obtained classified plans for a high-speed underwater torpedo. 
Friday, Russia's presidential pardons commission recommended Pope 
be freed, citing his failing health. Pope's wife has said he is suffering 
from recurrent bone cancer and his health has deteriorated since being 
jailed April 3. ``Pope is a sick man, who has gone through a lot, 
and he should be let go,'' commission head Anatoly Pristavkin said, 
according to the Interfax news agency. Thursday, national security 
adviser Sandy Berger said the administration hoped Putin would overturn 
an ``unjustifiable and wrong'' conviction. ``Ultimately, the decision 
will be made by President Putin, and we certainly hope he would exercise 
that authority,'' said Sandy Berger said. ``We have said to the Russians 
at every level, from the president on down, consistently, that we 
believe he should be released on humanitarian grounds, if nothing 
else,'' Berger said.