Presidential candidates George W. Bush and Al Gore agreed Thursday 
that Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic must heed protesters' calls 
that he step down. Bush, deviating from an education speech at a public 
school near Detroit, said it was ``clear the people have spoken. It 
is time for Mr. Milosevic to go.'' Later, he told a Wisconsin audience 
that Milosevic ``needs to go.'' In Belgrade, Yugoslavia, protesters 
took control of the parliament Thursday, angry that Milosevic won't 
accept electoral defeat. Bush, the Republican candidate, said the 
protesters were acting out of frustration and ``took matters into 
their own hands.'' ``Our country must work closely with our allies 
in Europe, the international community including Russia, to pressure 
Mr. Milosevic to leave office,'' Bush said. ``The world will be a 
better place when he hears the word of his people and leaves his office.'' 
Bush's running mate, Dick Cheney, in Kentucky for Thursday night's 
vice presidential debate, said, ``You keep your fingers crossed and 
hope it works out all right and democracy triumphs.'' Asked what the 
role of the United States should be, Cheney a former secretary of 
defense, said, ``Find out for sure what's going on. You always make 
sure you've got good information.'' Gore, the Democratic candidate, 
said he felt ``in some ways joyful'' at the sight of revolutionaries 
in Yugoslavia, but said the joy was tempered by the ``volatile situation'' 
in Belgrade. ``It is obviously time for Milosevic to get out of power. 
One way or another he is going to leave power because what we have 
seen is the power of people who vote to express themselves in a decisive 
way,'' Vice President Gore said in Grand Rapids, Mich. ``We call upon 
Milosevic to get out of power,'' he added. ``It will be taken from 
him if he does not, because the people of Serbia have spoken, and 
now they're rising up.'' Though Gore sympathized with the Yugoslav 
protesters, who staged the most violent revolts Milosevic has seen 
during his 13-year rule, the vice president said U.S. troops should 
not be involved. ``This is an expression of democracy by the people 
of Serbia and their will is not to be denied,'' Gore said. ``This 
is the kind of situation that we saw over and over again when the 
Berlin Wall came down. It is the people feeling their right to self-determination, 
and he has to yield, he has to leave.'' Gore's running mate, Joseph 
Lieberman, said, ``The people of Yugoslavia have made it clear first 
at the ballot box and now in the streets that they want freedom and 
democracy in their country. Milosevic's tyranny must end.'' During 
Tuesday's presidential debate, Gore was quick to seize on Bush when 
he said Russians might have the ``sway'' to persuade Milosevic to 
leave office. Russian President Vladimir Putin invited Milosevic and 
his rival to Moscow for talks to resolve the dispute. But Gore said 
Putin's unwillingness to recognize the election results was troubling. 
``I'm not sure that it's right for us to invite the president of Russia 
to mediate this dispute there, because we might not like the result 
that comes out of that,'' Gore said. Despite Gore's suggestion that 
involving the Russians could backfire given Moscow's past support 
for Milosevic, Bush made clear in his Michigan remarks that he believed 
the Russians had an important role to play. Asked on Thursday to comment 
on Bush's statement that Russians should be called in to assist, Gore 
said, ``I'm not going to get back into that. This is not a moment 
for politics.'' ``It is a moment for all the world to stand with the 
people of Serbia,'' Gore said. Bush, in his later question-and-answer 
session at a school in Appleton, Wis., noted that he had supported 
President Clinton's decision to confront Milosevic militarily in 1999. 
``I supported the president in Kosovo because I thought it was in 
our vital national interest to keep a strong NATO ... I was worried 
that an unchecked Milosevic would destabilize NATO, which would affect 
our vital national interests.''