President Vladimir Putin of Russia said Saturday that he would accept 
the recommendation of his presidential pardon commission to set free 
Edmond Pope, the former naval intelligence officer sentenced last 
week to 20 years for alleged espionage. His release is expected as 
early as Thursday. In Putin's first public comments since a Moscow 
judge imposed the maximum sentence on Pope, an American, on Wednesday, 
the Russian leader said the recommendation for clemency was made by 
``respected people'' and ``I cannot but heed their opinion.'' A 16-member 
clemency board made up of academics, writers and other well-known 
intellectuals voted unanimously on Friday to urge Putin to free Pope 
on humanitarian grounds. After his conviction following a seven-week 
closed trial here, Pope opted to seek a pardon instead of pressing 
an appeal of his conviction. ``My father is terminally ill and I wish 
to visit him one last time,'' Pope wrote to the presidential commission. 
Anatoly I. Pristavkin, a Soviet-era writer who is chairman of the 
commission, said on Russian television Friday night that the commission's 
recommendation showed ``that we are a magnanimous people, although 
legends circulate in the world about our cruelty.'' Other members 
of the commission suggested that ``spy mania'' had gone too far in 
the Pope case. Mark G. Rosovsky, a playwright and a theater director, 
said the case arose ``in an absolutely different historical context'' 
from the famous spy cases of the Cold War, ``and we today have to 
understand that the very concepts of espionage and spy mania have 
changed under contemporary conditions.'' A commission member, Marietta 
O. Chudakova, took the criticism one step further, saying, ``The investigative 
organs in our country still bear the marks of the Soviet system, more 
so than society in general.'' She said she hoped Putin would take 
that point. A Russian lawyer who was a member of Pope's legal team 
was briefly detained on Friday near the courthouse in Moscow where 
the trial occurred, driven across the city, and released near Leningradsky 
railway station, said Pavel Astakhov, Pope's lead lawyer. Astakhov 
said Pope's legal team was the object of surveillance and harassment 
during the case. The unexplained detention led to an immediate protest 
by the Moscow lawyers association. Putin's made his remarks Saturday 
while visiting Magnitogorsk, a huge metallurgical center in the Ural 
Mountains. He did not comment on the substance of the espionage charge 
against Pope, which involved his alleged receipt of secret information 
about the high-speed Shkval, or Squall, torpedo system. The system 
represented a breakthrough in underwater propulsion technology in 
the late 1970s. At the trial, Pope's lawyers argued that the information 
he received was available from open sources. Prosecutors, however, 
offered evidence that some of the information was classified, and 
raised the question of what kind of publicly available information 
required the transfer by Pope of $28,000 to the Russian scientist 
with whom he was dealing. Also arrested last April was Anatoly Babkin, 
the head of the rocket engine department at Bauman State Technical 
University. Babkin has since suffered two heart attacks and has yet 
to face criminal proceedings. Pope's lawyers have asserted that Babkin 
recanted his initial testimony that information provided to the American 
included secret material. However, other scientific witnesses also 
testified at the trial that some of the Shkval's secrets were compromised 
in the material prepared for sale to Pope and his associates at Pennsylvania 
State University. Putin said he had spoken with President Clinton 
about the case on Friday and had assured him that Pope would be offered 
any needed medical care from Russian doctors until the final decision 
was made on the pardon. Pope has suffered from a rare form of bone 
cancer. In Washington, Clinton said he was ``very appreciative'' of 
the decision to pardon Pope. He said the Russian move should also 
prove positive for long-term relations with Russia. Asked by reporters 
if there was any deal involved, Clinton said: There is no deal. We 
just had a discussion about it.'' Putin also said an important reason 
for his consideration of a pardon was not to allow the Pope case to 
lead to a worsening of Russian-American relations. After Pope's arrest, 
a number of members of Congress denounced his detention and warned 
Moscow that if he was not released on humanitarian grounds the case 
would poison relations with the next U.S. president and undermine 
the important agenda of arms control and international security questions 
pending between Washington and Moscow. By pardoning Pope, Putin will 
back his domestic counterintelligence service, which initiated the 
case against Pope and Babkin, while also advertising to the world 
that Russia remains a technological power that, though degraded, harbors 
a great deal of artful science _ especially in physics, optics, space 
and lasers _ that has marketable value. The delay in acting on the 
request for a pardon is a matter of Russian law, officials said, explaining 
that the verdict against Pope does not come into force until one week 
after it is handed down. At that time, Putin could grant the pardon, 
which means he will probably act on Thursday, when he is scheduled 
to be in Cuba. Pope's wife, Cheri, who kept a vigil in Moscow during 
the final arguments at the trial, expressed hope that she and her 
husband would be able to return to the United States in time for Christmas.