Japan's government has determined that ousted Peruvian president Alberto 
Fujimori holds Japanese citizenship, an official said Monday, a development 
that could allow him to stay in the country as long as he wants. A 
government investigation found that Fujimori was born in Peru but 
registered by his parents at a local Japanese consulate, making him 
a Japanese citizen, a Foreign Ministry official said, speaking on 
condition of anonymity. Fujimori has not revoked his Japanese citizenship, 
said the official, who works in the ministry's Latin American division. 
He added that under Peruvian law, Fujimori also holds Peruvian citizenship 
since he was born in that country. Javier Valle Riestra, a constitutional 
expert and former Peruvian prime minister, said his country's constitution 
requires only that a president be born in Peru and contains no explicit 
prohibition against duel citizenship. Fujimori cannot be extradited 
if he is declared to have Japanese citizenship, since Japan's extradition 
law does not permit deportation of its nationals. It would have been 
difficult in any case, since Japan and Peru have no extradition treaty. 
Japan's determination that Fujimori, the son of Japanese immigrants 
to Peru, was born in the Andean nation could put to rest persistent 
rumors to the contrary that would have meant his presidency had been 
illegitimate. Hiromi Jitsukawa, an official from Japan's Justice Ministry, 
said the government would officially reveal its findings ``within 
a matter of days.'' Fujimori has been in Japan since mid-November, 
when a bribery scandal surrounding his former spy chief threatened 
his rule. The Peruvian congress deposed him in his absence, declaring 
him unfit for office. Peruvian authorities are investigating Fujimori's 
connections with his one-time spymaster, Vladimiro Montesinos, who 
is accused of controlled a web of money laundering, drug trafficking 
and influence peddling. The former president could face charges if 
he returns to Peru. Fujimori denies any wrongdoing. Kumamoto, where 
Fujimori's family records are reportedly kept, is on the island of 
Kyushu, 565 miles southwest of the capital.