In Yugoslavia today, a Belgrade court indited six-members of electoral 
commissions on charges that they abused their official functions. 
Last September, Yugoslavia's Federal Election Commission published 
results of a presidential vote, results which, if anyone had believed 
them, would have necessitated a run off between Slobodan Milosevic 
and Voislav Kostunica. There was no run off, of course, Serbs wouldn't 
stand for it. Now three months later Kostunica is no longer opposing 
the government. He is running it. The World's Jackie Rolan reports 
from Belgrade. The popular uprising which swept Voislav Kostunica 
to power, hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets in early 
October to force Slobodan Milosevic to accept his election defeat 
and step down. In the two months since then the United Nations and 
western governments have rushed to welcome Yugoslavia back into the 
international fold. But at home the most noticeable change has been 
a sharp increase in the cost of living. President Kostunica says this 
is inevitable but he sees better times ahead. We are living all under 
very difficult conditions, social aspirations is very difficult and 
that is something which has to do with Milosevic regime, sanctions 
of international community, bombing of this country last year, but 
what people mostly appreciate is that sense of freedom. The west has 
been rewarding the democratic reforms in Serbia with big aid packages, 
but the money comes with some conditions attached. Western governments 
want Serbia to cooperate with the international war crimes Tribunal 
in The Hague. The Tribunal has been allowed to open an office in Belgrade, 
but it's not clear how far this cooperation will go. President Kostunica 
says he does not agree with demands that Milosevic should be extradited 
to The Hague. I am not in favor of that I must say. I am in favor 
of trying to go through these processes of responsibility within the 
country. I have a very general and many very general objections to 
The Hague Tribunal. I cannot imagine that just one judicial instant, 
just one court is actually enough to cope this problems. After winning 
the presidency in September, Kostunica and his allies now face a much 
easier task with Serbian Parliamentary elections in less then two 
weeks time. The latest opinion polls suggest they will get about 65% 
of the vote, while Milosevic and his party would be lucky to win more 
then a few seats. The opposition coalition has been an alliance of 
convenience and President Kostunica admits that it will not last long 
beyond the elections. We had to run through these republic elections 
and with all these differences we are staying till these elections, 
and later on when we come to some elections, of course, quite normally 
and for the good of democracy, these differences between the parties 
within democratic opposition of Serbia will appear. The splits are 
already visible with public disagreements between Kostunica and Zoran 
Djindjic, the man expected to form the new Serbian government. So 
the country faces more political instability in the year ahead and 
the likely prospect of new elections. For The World, I am Jacky Rowland 
in Belgrade.