The Serbian nationalist hysteria that swept Slobodan Milosevic to 
power in the late 1980s evaporated long ago, leaving him an isolated 
figure ruling over a shrinking land. But with resilience, ruse and 
ruthlessness, he outmaneuvered his enemies, until at last the enemy 
became his own people. Always, Milosevic believed he could outlast 
his foes. But the hundreds of thousands of Serbs in Belgrade who on 
Thursday stormed the parliament and seized the television network 
that has long sustained him with its propaganda, made clear that the 
tide of history had escaped him. Of the Kosovo Albanians, his first 
enemies, Milosevic could say that they were intent on a ``demographic 
genocide'' against the Serbs _ a reference to their high birth rate; 
of the Croats, that they were reincarnated fascists _ a reference 
to their World War II past as a Nazi puppet state; of the Bosnian 
Muslims, that they were the Ottoman Turks of old bent on destroying 
the Serbs. And of NATO, he could say that it represented evil American 
imperialism. But of his own people, seemingly undivided at last, intent 
on ending their European isolation, enraged by one maneuver too many 
that seemed to rob them of their vote in the recent presidential election, 
Milosevic could find nothing to say on Thursday. He could summon no 
specter or myth that might divert or divide or cow. The possibility 
that even so cunning a man might recover authority seemed remote. 
From western capitals _ Washington, London, Berlin _ the calls to 
Milosevic were unambiguous, reflecting a conviction that the man who 
stirred and sustained Yugoslavia's long unraveling had at last run 
out of options: Accept your people's verdict and go before more damage 
is done or blood is spilled. On the evidence, Milosevic's time should 
have been up long ago: his years of rule have seen a succession of 
lost wars, hundreds of thousands of Serbs uprooted, an economy ruined, 
wages slashed and an area that was among the most prosperous in the 
communist bloc turned into a conspicuous center of poverty. But it 
was always easy to underestimate him. Indeed, it was not until the 
Kosovo war last year that western governments, including the United 
States, turned against Milosevic. At the Dayton conference in 1995 
that ended the war in Bosnia, he was still central to American diplomatic 
efforts, winning friends with his focus on the big picture and his 
evocative language: details, to Milosevic, were mere ``technology.'' 
In diplomacy, as at home, the Serbian strongman long succeeded in 
convincing others that he could not be circumvented. His methods for 
conveying and retaining this authority were multiple. In the late 
1980s, he saw the power of crude nationalism in a Serbian society 
whose binding ideology _ communism _ was disintegrating. The motto 
of his Communist-turned-socialist party was straightforward: ``Serbia 
does not kneel.'' Such slogans initially earned him a mob appeal. 
His posters were everywhere in the early 1990s as Yugoslavia descended 
into violence. But kneel Serbia ultimately did in a succession of 
wars _ in Croatia, then in Bosnia. Milosevic always portrayed these 
conflicts as defensive attempts to allow Serbs to ``remain in Yugoslavia'' 
even as he did more than anyone else to precipitate the conflicts 
through his hate-filled propaganda against all his neighbors. Most 
Serbs believed him. The deaths of thousands of Muslims in the Serbian 
concentration camps in Bosnia in 1992 and at Srebrenica in 1995 were 
often dismissed in Belgrade as ``Muslim propaganda.'' In fact, they 
were a clear demonstration of the Milosevic's readiness to resort 
to force _ against the Albanians of Kosovo in the 1980s as he suppressed 
their autonomy, against demonstrators on the streets of Belgrade in 
1991, against the Muslims of Bosnia in the violent rampage of 1992, 
and the Albanians again in the late 1990s. No Stalin, no Hitler, Milosevic, 
59, nonetheless proved himself over the past 13 years to be the most 
violent ruler Europe has seen in many years. Over 200,000 people have 
died in the wars of Yugoslavia's destruction. His inability to use 
force in the current crisis made clear how his strength has evaporated. 
His instinct for survival had long proved remarkable. As the wars 
turned in 1995 and the vision of ``Greater Serbia'' receded, to be 
replaced by a vision of ``Greater Slobo,'' many observers expected 
Milosevic to fall. The streets of Belgrade were filled with demonstrators 
for three months as 1996 turned to 1997. But he deployed a succession 
of other tactics to replace the galvanizing frenzy of military conflict. 
One constant ploy was ``divide and rule'' _ a highly effective tactic 
in a society disoriented by the propaganda of Serbian television and 
subjugation. One old Serbian joke had a farmer saying that he would 
``vote for the opposition when it is in power.'' But it was no joke 
that many people long thought that way. Even as Serbia's resources 
dwindled, Milosevic used what money there was to buy loyalty from 
the secret police he armed and from a coterie of business and political 
associates who dominated the trafficking in the country's increasingly 
closed and corrupt economy. Behind this loyal entourage, he hid himself. 
The reality of Serbia was increasingly grim, a country poor and isolated, 
a far cry from the exalted vision that Milosevic started by offering 
the Serbs, most memorably, at Kosovo Field in 1989, on the 600th anniversary 
of the Serbs' losing battle to the Ottoman Turks. Then he declared 
that the Serbs ``never conquered or exploited others'' and were imbued 
with a ``historical being that throughout history was a liberating 
one.'' But a ``vassal mentality'' among Serbian politicians had too 
long allowed ``the humiliation of Serbia.'' He concluded: ``Here we 
are today on the field of Kosovo to say that it is not so any longer.'' 
For much of his rule, Milosevic succeeded in sustaining his rule through 
such myths: that a Balkan enemy, or the outside world, or NATO, was 
intent on humiliating Serbia and the only way to resist was to stick 
together. But the purpose of doing so seemed increasingly elusive. 
Survival seemed to become Milosevic's only political intent. As the 
Serbs of Croatia lost their homes in 1995, and large chunks of Bosnia 
slipped from grasp, and finally Kosovo too was lost in an avoidable 
war with NATO in 1999, he persisted. The son of parents who both committed 
suicide, Milosevic seemed intent on dragging his people toward the 
sort of collective death that Serbian myth tends to portray as a form 
of redemption. Even Serbian myths exhaust themselves, however. Last 
year, Milosevic was indicted by the war crimes tribunal in The Hague, 
Netherlands. As the country suffered, and Serbs saw no prospect of 
recovery, the police and army became estranged. Vojislav Kostunica, 
the man who appears on the verge of taking power, faces overwhelming 
problems, not least the fact that the disintegration of Yugoslavia 
may not be over. Both Montenegro and Kosovo seek independence that 
he, like Milosevic, opposes. But Kostunica understands his most effective 
weapons. He talks unceasingly about the lifting of economic sanctions, 
the need for dialogue and his desire to turn Serbia once more into 
a ``normal'' country.