Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday pardoned an American 
businessman who had been sentenced to 20 years in prison on espionage 
charges, clearing the way for him to go home, the Kremlin said. Edmond 
Pope of State College, Pa., was released immediately from Moscow's 
Lefortovo prison, said an official speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Associated Press reporters saw two cars escorted by police speeding 
away from the prison where Pope had been held for more than eight 
months. The cars headed straight to Moscow's main international airport 
and a plane carrying Pope took off for Frankfurt, Germany, shortly 
before noon, said Pope's lawyer, Pavel Astakhov. ``It's like waking 
up from a horrible nightmare,'' Pope's mother, Elizabeth Pope, told 
AP from her home in Grants Pass, Ore. ``I will be much happier when 
I see him and I am able to put my arms around him.'' A presidential 
spokesman told AP that Putin pardoned Pope on humanitarian grounds 
and in order to preserve good relations with Washington. The pardon 
cited ``the health condition of the convict and his personal appeal, 
and also ... the high level of ties between the Russian Federation 
and the United States of America.'' Pope has suffered in the past 
from a rare form of bone cancer, and his family feared that it may 
have returned during his imprisonment. His wife, Cheri, has said he 
had lost about 25 pounds and two teeth, probably due to the poor prison 
diet. But Russia's Security Service, the agency that prosecuted Pope, 
said a prison doctor examined him before his release and pronounced 
his health ``normal.'' Elizabeth Pope said her son and his wife would 
be getting a medical evaluation in Frankfurt. However, Astakhov said 
the Popes would travel immediately to the United States from there. 
Pope's imprisonment and conviction by a Moscow court last week on 
charges of obtaining plans for a top-secret Russian Navy torpedo prompted 
a diplomatic confrontation between Washington and Moscow. The U.S. 
government criticized the court that convicted Pope, with observers 
saying it was heavily biased in favor of the Russian security services. 
It was the first time in 40 years that an American had been convicted 
of espionage in Russia. The case has raised questions about the growing 
power of the security services in Russia and fueled fears among foreigners 
trying to do business there. Pope has protested his innocence, saying 
the plans he purchased were not secret and that the technology had 
already been sold abroad and published in open sources. Pope sent 
a letter to Putin asking for clemency on the eve of his conviction, 
his wife said. Putin, who is on a visit to Cuba, had indicated last 
week that he would release Pope. Thursday was the first day that Putin 
could pardon Pope under Russian law. ``It is impossible to overestimate 
this act of mercy,'' Astakhov told the Interfax news agency. ``Freedom 
is the only thing that Pope needs at this moment,'' he said, though 
he expressed frustration that Pope was convicted in the first place. 
Pope's wife went to the prison early Thursday along with U.S. Embassy 
officers. A clutch of reporters and TV crews waited at the gates of 
the high-security prison, which is surrounded by a cinderblock wall 
topped with coiled, barbed wire. The Security Service said Pope was 
handed his personal belongings and given the chance to ask questions 
about the pardon. He had none, the service said. Back in the United 
States, Pope's partner in CERF Technologies, which specializes in 
studying foreign maritime equipment, called news of the release ``wonderful.'' 
``I think we're very fortunate that President Putin has taken the 
action that he has, because Edmond's physical condition has so obviously 
deteriorated and we all fear for his life,'' Charles Mong said. ``I 
just hope that he's able to get home and get to a good facility and 
get checked out and be able to resume his life.''