The World's Moscow correspondent Nenad Sebek is right here in Boston. 
Nenad, today Vladimir Putin sent a message of congratulations to President-elect 
Bush. How about a reality check from you, is the Russian President 
likely, sincerely happy about the outcome of the election? Well, it 
is very difficulty to say what Putin is thinking, what he has come 
up with is a classic sort of diplomatic note of saying "well, congratulations 
on your elections and we hope we'll work well". But its a Russian 
tradition that they sort of never openly comment on who the next President 
is going to be, what the policy issues are going to be, what the issues 
are going to be. This is just sort of a note saying "well, congratulations 
lets hope we'll work well." Okay so that is in a public declaration. 
I know that you have spoken privately and in some cases during interviews 
with lots of people, decision-makers throughout Moscow, what are they 
telling you? Well, there seemed to have been a preference for a Republican 
President all along, in Moscow. There is somehow a feeling that the 
Republicans are the party that Moscow has on a traditional basis dealt 
better with. Can you explain that, I mean, what is that preference 
for Republicans? Well, if you look back at history, most of the major 
arms deals and most of the major deals between Moscow and Washington 
were done whilst there was a Republican President sitting in the White 
House, not when there was a Democrat. How about one of the major issues 
that could separate the two countries and at this point there are 
two different ideologies on it already and that's national missile 
defense, which President-elect Bush has supported. He has supported 
it, but the Russians are hoping that that was pretty much pre-election 
rhetoric and that once he actually steps into the office he is not 
going to insist on it that much. They also have a feeling that the 
Republicans are a more pragmatic party and therefore are more likely 
to sort of reach some kind of an agreement and then there is one more 
thing they feel that the Republicans are more isolationist, which 
means that Washington is not going to go around trying to resolve 
every single trouble spot everywhere in the world and thereby stepping 
on Russia's toes, for example like during their strikes against Yugoslavia 
or during the war in Chechnya. They have a feeling that Washington 
is going to be more concerned with US affairs inside the United States 
and not that much with what's going on elsewhere in the world and 
thereby they feel they will have a greater playing field for themselves. 
One of the areas of tension, most recently, between the United States 
and Russia has been the issue on an American businessman, Edmund Pope, 
whom President Putin has pardoned today. This is a man who had been 
sentenced last week to 20 years in jail on espionage charges. Now 
as we speak, Mr. Pope is on his way back home here to the United States, 
should we interpret the pardon as a goodwill gesture to the President-elect, 
how do you read it? It's a goodwill gesture towards the new administration 
not necessarily towards George W Bush, it would have been the same. 
Pope would have pardoned even if Al Gore was the President-elect. 
Basically, Moscow was fed up with the whole affair. They got what 
they wanted. They got a sentence and President Putin was trying to 
get rid of Edmund Pope as soon as possible. We saw that because last 
Thursday he was sentenced, the next day he appealed to President Putin 
for clemency and immediately President Putin started the whole process 
in motion, so although Pope was officially free today we knew about 
this seven days ago. So it is a sign of, you know, lets do business 
guys. And other areas of business first in the agenda for President-elect 
Bush regarding Russia? Well, there is the issue of the national missile 
defense. That is certainly one thing to be discussed. Then what about 
the peacekeeping operations elsewhere in the world, primarily in the 
former Yugoslavia, where Russia wants a stronger role for itself than 
it had so far, and very important for Moscow is the issue of NATO 
expansion. They have a feeling that George Bush might not be as President, 
as keen on NATO expansion as the Clinton administration was or as 
a Gore administration would have been. The World's Nenad Sebek speaking 
to us from Boston, nice to have you here. Thank you very much, Lisa.