Thousands of immigrants fled Ivory Coast on Thursday, fearful of being 
targeted by civil unrest if opposition leaders are barred from presidential 
elections. Immigrants from neighboring West African countries and 
Muslims from northern Ivory Coast are the primary support base of 
the main opposition candidate, Alassane Dramane Ouattara, who is expected 
to be excluded from the vote. Some Ouattara supporters have warned 
of civil unrest if he is excluded and junta officials have countered 
with threats of harsh reprisals for any violence. Junta leader Gen. 
Robert Guei struck a conciliatory note in an address to the nation 
Thursday, but warned he intended to act with ``a firm hand'' during 
this ``sensitive period.'' ``Dear foreign sisters and brothers, it 
is legitimate that the life of the country that received you should 
interest you,'' Guei said. ``But you must refrain from taking part 
in the jousts of national politics. They do not concern you.'' The 
U.S. State Department announced it was sending Ambassador Nancy Powell, 
the No. 2 official in the African affairs bureau, to the Ivory Coast 
to underscore the grave U.S. concern about developments in that country. 
Powell will meet Friday with Gen. Robert Guei, leader the governing 
junta in Ivory Coast, said department spokesman Philip Reeker. Meanwhile, 
immigrant families converged on bus stations in Abidjan's potholed, 
polluted working-class neighborhood of Adjame, seeking to leave ahead 
of a weekend state of emergency and curfew announced Thursday by the 
junta. At one station, surrounded by car-sized potholes filled with 
foul-smelling mud, hundreds of immigrants from Mali squatted among 
rice sacks and flimsy bags of clothing. ``I have sick parents to think 
about, so I am afraid,'' said Mohammed Cisse, 24, who along with his 
parents and younger brother had been waiting since dawn to get places 
on a bus to Mali. ``The situation is dangerous in Ivory Coast and 
I don't want my parents to be here if it gets worse.'' At a nearby 
bus station, where state television said a bomb exploded late Wednesday, 
killing four people, anxious immigrants waited while a damaged vehicle 
was repaired. State television reported the device exploded in the 
hands of the assailants as they were planting it, but there was no 
independent confirmation of the account. Some witnesses said the victims 
included vendors who had nothing to do with the bomb. ``One of my 
friends was killed and he was not a bomber _ he sold sacks,'' said 
Abou Tiote, a bus station laborer. The Supreme Court is expected to 
announce by Saturday who can run against Guei, who has insisted he 
will run despite international calls to step down. After seizing power 
in Ivory Coast's first coup d'etat on Dec. 24, Guei initially promised 
a quick handover to civilians. But he has since traded his military 
uniform for a suit and tie and has rallied several small political 
parties around his candidacy. He promised Thursday to ``respect on 
every point the will of the people and to suffer no stalling tactics,'' 
but noted that foreigners were forbidden in Ivory Coast to ``lust 
after the highest responsibilities of state.'' Adding to the growing 
tensions were a series of arrests in a Sept. 18 shooting outside Guei's 
home. Nearly all those taken into custody were soldiers, most of them 
northerners thought to be at odds with regime. At least 30 were tortured 
and at least two died, two soldiers familiar with the torture sessions 
told Daniel Balint-Kurti of Dow Jones Newswires. The soldiers, who 
spoke on condition of anonymity, said one man was covered in a mattress 
and burned alive, and others were forced to crawl beneath barbed wire 
hung low to the ground, shredding the skin on their backs. Salt was 
then poured on the wounds, the soldiers said. The junta, which says 
the shooting was an attempt to assassinate Guei, has denied torturing 
or killing the dozens of suspects arrested in the incident. Some disaffected 
soldiers see the arrests that followed the shooting as an army purge 
of northerners suspected of sympathy with Ouattara. The junta contends 
Ouattara, a former International Monetary Fund deputy managing director 
and Ivory Coast prime minister, cannot run for president because one 
of his parents was born outside the country. Ouattara says both his 
parents are Ivorian. The debate over his eligibility has solidified 
Guei's support among southerners who have long dominated Ivory Coast's 
political arena, while hardening the defiance of northerners. The 
leader of the former ruling Democratic Party of Ivory Coast, Emile 
Constant Bombey, is also expected to be barred from running. The junta 
has accused him of corruption. The December coup shook Ivory Coast's 
standing as a stable financial and political power. The country has 
Africa's third-largest economy, dependent on exports of coffee and 
cocoa.