An intense manhunt was underway on Thursday for seven armed men who 
escaped from a maximum security prison near here on Wednesday by impersonating 
a civilian maintenance crew and overpowering their guards. Hundreds 
of law enforcement officials, some on horseback, used roadblocks, 
helicopters and tracking dogs to comb the rural countryside surrounding 
the John B. Connally Jr. state prison, three miles south of this ranching 
community of about 4,000 people. Six of the men, including two convicted 
murderers, were serving long prison sentences, Texas officials said. 
Particularly alarming, they said, was that the inmates had stolen 
weapons from prison guards during the daylight escape. ``They are 
now heavily armed and probably desperate,'' said Maj. William Daniels, 
a spokesman for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. ``They've 
got nothing to lose, and these are seven really bad guys.'' Roadblocks 
were set up on every highway leading out of Kenedy, about 50 miles 
south of San Antonio, and prison guards searched on foot in cattle 
pastures up to 20 miles away. Daniels said the prison break began 
about 1:30 p.m. Wednesday when the seven men seized eight maintenance 
workers and two guards, stole their clothes, a radio and keys to a 
prison truck and left the prison employees tied up and locked in a 
utility room. Making their way to a rear gate of the prison, the men 
convinced a guard that they were authorized to perform work on a watchtower. 
After he opened the first of two gates leading from the prison, they 
overpowered the guard and left him bound with duct tape. Next, the 
men gained access to a watchtower by tricking another guard into believing 
they were supposed to install equipment. Both guards were left bound 
and unharmed, Daniels said. The seven stole 14 .357 Magnum pistols, 
an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle, a 12-gauge shotgun and several hundred 
rounds of ammunition from the watchtower, he said. They then fled 
in a prison pickup truck. The truck was found about 4 p.m. Wednesday, 
abandoned in a Wal-Mart parking lot in Kenedy. State and local law 
enforcement officials searched houses and apartments nearby, Daniels 
said. ``We think it's a distinct possibility that they were met by 
someone at the Wal-Mart. This whole thing was very well planned,'' 
he said. The escapees have been identified by the Texas authorities 
as Joseph C. Garcia, serving a 50-year sentence for murder; Randy 
Ethan Halprin, serving 30 years for injury to a child; Larry James 
Harper, sentenced to 50 years for aggravated assault and sexual assault; 
Patrick Henry Murphy Jr., serving 50 years for aggravated assault 
with a deadly weapon; Donald Keith Newbury, serving a life sentence 
for aggravated robbery with a deadly weapon; George Rivas, serving 
5 years for burglary and kidnapping, and Michael Anthony Rodriguez, 
serving a life sentence for capital murder. This is the first escape 
from the five-year-old Connally prison, officials said. But the prison, 
which holds about 2,800 men, has not been without problems. In April, 
eight prisoners assaulted three guards, and on June 7 an inmate severely 
beat a warden as she searched a cell. Several days later, another 
corrections officer was stabbed by an inmate using a homemade knife.