there was a rare display of power in washington today. hundreds of 
fbi agents marching on the white house. they are trying to prevent 
the president from pardoning a man who has been in prison since 1977 
for murder. he has become an international celebrity. the fbi has 
long been determined that he will never go free. he is an american 
indian named leonard peltier. abc's pierre thomas. trench-coated fbi 
agents marching to the white house. they don't want the president 
to free leonard peltier, the man they believe executed two of their 
fbi comrades. i have watched the truth be trampled for 25 years. and 
i would just like a chance to have people understand the murder that 
was done. it was june 26, 1975. fbi agents jack coler and ron williams 
were shot while searching for a robbery suspect on the pine ridge 
indian reservation in south dakota. williams and coler were shot in 
the head at close range. marching today, agent dave price one of the 
first on the scene. we could see the two bodies. it was side of -- 
just a real silence. the fbi's case was largely built around one fact 
-- a witness saw peltier standing over the agents with a weapon like 
the one used in the murders. even the fbi acknowledges no one saw 
peltier shoot the agents. peltier's defenders say the fbi framed him. 
mr. peltier was convicted only after the fbi terrorized a number of 
witnesses, who later rekanlted their stories fully. he has support 
from a wide range of human rights watchers and public figures like 
coretta scott king, nelson mandela and robert redford. my release 
date is 2035, i believe. in jail, peltier has become an artist. and 
donating his work to aid abused women. the expanding free peltier 
campaign has left many in the fbi worried. freeh has lobbied the president. 
memorial services, petitions. some are concerned about the fbi's campaign. 
can you not engage in marches. the fbi is a powerful organization. 
but for the 9,000 fbi agents who signed a petition to the president 
and hundreds who marched today, they want to mercy for peltier. peter 
thomas, abc news, washington.