About 500 active and retired FBI agents and support employees marched 
to the White House on Friday in a highly unusual protest, angered 
that President Clinton might commute the life sentence of an American 
Indian activist convicted of killing two FBI agents 25 years ago. 
Many agents wore their FBI badges defiantly pinned to their coats 
as they walked two-by-two in a long, silent protest around the Ellipse, 
the park immediately south of the White House, to the presidential 
mansion. At the front of the line several agents held a banner that 
said, ``Never Forget.'' For an agency whose workers regard themselves 
as civilian employees of an institution steeped in a paramilitary 
tradition, the protest was a serious break from discipline and order, 
reflecting the deep resentment many of agents feel toward Clinton 
because of the Peltier case. Within the agent workforce, Clinton has 
never been a widely popular president, in part because of what agents 
believe is his scarcely concealed disdain for FBI Director Louis J. 
Freeh. The march was not officially sanctioned, but many senior officials, 
including Freeh, quietly expressed approval even as they stayed away 
from the protest. The FBI marchers took vacation leave to join in 
the protest and did not participate at government expense, said Susan 
Lloyd, an agent who is a spokesman for the FBI's Washington field 
office. Clinton, who wields the sole discretion on clemency actions, 
has not said whether he will commute Peltier's sentence. But he told 
a radio interviewer in November that he would consider Peltier's request 
along with other clemency applications. Freeh wrote to Clinton last 
week expressing his ``abhorrence'' over the possibility that Peltier 
might be freed. Friday, Freeh spoke at a memorial service before the 
march that was held for the two slain agents, Ron A. Williams and 
Jack R. Coler. Peltier's supporters expressed shock that FBI employees 
would attempt to influence a clemency decision. ``I think its inappropriate 
and very disturbing for members of our government's armed police forces 
to march through the streets of Washington, D.C., to block the correction 
of the violation of rights that they inflicted not only on Peltier 
but on native Americans throughout the Pine Ridge reservation,'' said 
Jennifer K. Harbury, a lawyer for Peltier. At the time of the shootings, 
the two agents were searching for a robbery suspect on the Pine Ridge 
reservation in South Dakota. The agents, in separate cars, came under 
fire from assailants several hundred yards away. The agents were wounded 
in the attack and later killed by a gunman who stood over the men 
and fired into their heads. The government said at Peltier's trial 
that only he had a weapon of the type that investigators believed 
was used in the killings. Peltier has unsuccessfully appealed his 
conviction and has said that he did not shoot the agents. In recent 
years, an effort to free him has gained momentum. Last Sunday, supporters 
held a march near the United Nations in New York which attracted several 
thousand people. Clinton, like his predecessors, has frequently issued 
end-of-the-year pardons, and, supporters of several controversial 
clemency applicants regard Clinton final days in office as their last 
chance to obtain a Presidential grant of leniency. The peaceful protest 
prompted anti-FBI demonstrators to gather in small numbers near the 
march, holding signs criticizing the FBI over several controversial 
operations, like the tear gas assault on the Branch Davidian compound 
in 1993. Another anti-FBI demonstrator held a sign that said ``Free 
Peltier, Jail Horiuchi,'' referring to the agent who shot and killed 
the wife of a white separatist during a stand-off at remote cabin 
at Ruby Ridge, Idaho, in 1992.