After two difficult days of talks about old debts and dashed dreams 
with Fidel Castro, Russian President Vladimir Putin said Friday that 
he did not travel to this former bastion of the Cold War to re-create 
a ``union'' with Cuba against the United States, but rather to clean 
up the economic ``mess'' left over from the Soviet era. Speaking at 
a press conference that was not attended by the Cuban leader, Putin 
indicated in several ways that Russia's relations with the United 
States, though difficult at times, are important to Moscow. Still, 
he said that Moscow would not hesitate to express opposing views on 
arms control issues, on questions of international security and _ 
a new theme of his on this trip _ on how to narrow the gap between 
the ``golden billion'' and the world's poorest nations. Responding 
to a question on whether his visit here amounted to re-establishing 
an alliance between Moscow and Havana, Putin said: ``Unfortunately, 
you have been looking at the wrong kind of information. We have no 
union with Cuba against third countries, including the United States 
if you were talking about that country. ``Yes, we have differences 
on some questions with the United States and they are well known,'' 
he continued, but he said that these were ``items of discussion and 
no more than that.'' In stressing this point, Putin disclosed Friday 
that he had authorized his foreign minister, Igor Ivanov, to sign 
an agreement with the outgoing Clinton administration calling for 
advance notification of rocket launches to further promote transparency 
among the extensive nuclear forces of the United States and Russia. 
Putin said he ``deeply'' hoped the agreement would be concluded Friday, 
or in the near future. Ivanov was said to be negotiating the agreement 
in Brussels with Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. Putin's remarks 
Friday appeared to be an effort to put his visit to Cuba in the unthreatening 
context that Moscow is merely trying to recover lost markets and multimillion-dollar 
Soviet-era investments, rather than foment a new image of rivalry. 
And the subtext of his remarks, together with comments by Russian 
officials traveling with Putin, also indicated that the thorny economic 
issues underlying Moscow's relations with Cuba do not compare with 
the more weighty economic and security agenda, which Putin intends 
to pursue with the new administration in Washington. As an example, 
Putin cited his pardon on Thursday _ as a ``goodwill gesture'' _ of 
the American Edmond Pope, a former naval intelligence officer convicted 
of espionage in Moscow this month and sentenced to 20 years in prison. 
Putin said he had no reason to doubt the appropriateness of the guilty 
verdict against the 54-year-old businessman, but added that the activities 
of intelligence agencies, charged with protecting national security, 
``should not inflict damage on relations between nations, the more 
so in the case of such key countries as Russia and the United States.'' 
On another point about continuing intelligence activities, the Russian 
leader indicated that the 1,500 Russian military technicians who operate 
an electronic eavesdropping facility at Lourdes, outside the Cuban 
capital and used to intercept communications in the United States, 
may not be here permanently. ``Russia and Cuba at this specific moment 
are interested that this center will continue to work,'' he said, 
adding, ``and then we'll see.'' As he prepared for the final rounds 
of tough negotiations with Castro over whether Cuba intends to even 
recognize the estimated $20 billion in debt that accumulated during 
three decades of Soviet patronage here, Putin also went out of his 
way to compliment the skill and experience of the foreign policy advisers 
that President-elect George W. Bush is gathering around him in Washington. 
``Judging by the staff surrounding the president-elect,'' Putin observed, 
``these people are quite well-known professionals, who deeply understand 
the nuances in relations between the two states.'' And the Russian 
leader was clear about the major differences of opinion: Moscow opposes 
Bush's advocacy toward abrogating the anti-ballistic missile treaty 
of 1972 in order to build an anti-missile shield over the United States 
and, in addition, ``we don't think that the principle of humanitarian 
intervention is right.'' He was referring to NATO's decision in 1999 
to intervene militarily in Kosovo to stop Serbian forces from conducting 
a campaign of ethnic violence against civilians there. While Putin 
was speaking with reporters in Havana, Russian state television was 
airing a lengthy interview with Castro. Though Castro extolled the 
new friendship between Russia and Cuba, he restated his grievance 
that Cuba had been ``left alone'' by the circumstances of Soviet collapse 
and Russian withdrawal from Cuba, which had to face ``the most powerful 
state in the world.'' Castro made no reference to Cuba's residual 
debts to Moscow, and he avoided discussion of the complicated economic 
issues that he and Putin are trying to resolve. Putin and Castro will 
retreat to the luxurious beach resort of Varadero this weekend to 
try to conclude some common understanding of how Moscow and Havana 
can put substance behind the new vocabulary of friendship and economic 
cooperation. In describing the task, Putin said Russians have several 
goals in this first foray back to Latin America since Putin was elected 
last March. ``The first one is the activation of relations in the 
political sphere, cleaning up the mess and choosing priorities of 
cooperation between the two states in the economic sphere,'' he said. 
The Russian leader indicated Friday that Moscow has spent $30 million 
in recent years ``conserving'' its investment in a large nuclear power 
station at Jurgua, near Cienfuegos, but had come to no agreement about 
how to complete the plant. Russian officials traveling with Putin 
indicated that Cuba is no longer interested in completing the facility, 
but there has been no public confirmation of this position from Castro's 
government.