Marching two-by-two and wearing blue memorial ribbons, hundreds of 
FBI agents staged an unprecedented demonstration at the White House 
on Friday, protesting any presidential clemency for an American Indian 
activist convicted of killing two FBI men in 1975. The emotional procession 
of 500 current and former FBI employees and family members marched 
in a loop around the White House, led by two agents carrying banner 
with the red-lettered slogan ``Never Forget.'' A few agents blinked 
back tears as they displayed pictures of their slain colleagues, agents 
Ron Williams and Jack Koler. The agents hauled a bulky petition for 
President Clinton signed by 8,000 current and former agents protesting 
any easing of punishment for Leonard Peltier, 56, who is serving two 
consecutive life sentences in the federal prison at Leavenworth, Kan. 
Secret Service agents refused to take the petition, however, telling 
their fellow federal officers White House security forbids acceptance 
of any documents or packages. The agents planned to mail it. ``There 
are situations in which mercy is warranted, but clearly what this 
man has done puts him outside of the reach of any presidential pardon,'' 
said John Sennett, a New York-based agent and president of the FBI 
Agents Association, which has about 9,000 active and 1,000 retired 
members. The protest supported FBI Director Louis Freeh's recommendation 
to Clinton not to give Peltier clemency, saying such an act would 
``signal disrespect'' for law enforcement. The White House has declined 
comment on any Clinton plans for pardons but has said the president 
would review pending requests for executive clemency, including Peltier's, 
before he leaves office in January. ``There are strong passions on 
all sides of the issue,'' said White House spokesman Elliot Diringer. 
``The president's decision will be based on the facts.'' Agents Williams 
and Koler were killed June 26, 1975, on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation 
in South Dakota as they were searching for robbery suspects. Both 
were shot in the head at point-blank range after they were injured. 
The bodies were left on a dirt road. Peltier's story has become well 
known on Indian reservations across the country. After fleeing to 
Canada and being extradited to the United States, he was convicted 
and sentenced in 1977 for the killings, despite defense claims that 
evidence against him had been falsified. In El Paso, Texas, another 
100 FBI agents protested Peltier's clemency request Friday, standing 
behind the city's top FBI agent, Edmundo Guevara, along a roadside 
in front of the agency's local headquarters as he read a statement 
against Peltier. Many of the agents demonstrating at the White House 
said they believe they are fighting more than just one man's claims 
of innocence _ they believe they are battling a myth that has swollen 
out of proportion. In prison, Peltier has written two books about 
the plight of Native Americans on reservations and his supporters 
are waging a national campaign for his release. A handful of Peltier 
supporters gathered to shout at the orderly line of officers as they 
passed. ``Peltier is a political prisoner,'' said a man who identified 
himself as P.J. Smith of Washington. ``We are very disappointed with 
the FBI response,'' Jennifer Harbury, an attorney for Peltier, said 
at a news conference before the march. ``We think it's inappropriate, 
and we think it's a sad day for democracy when our armed forces march 
through the streets to influence a decision for mercy and justice 
by a civilian president.'' The Peltier supporters said the FBI targeted 
him because of his vocal support of autonomy for reservations. Susan 
Lloyd, an FBI field office spokeswoman who joined the protesters, 
said the vast majority of those in the demonstration were active agents. 
All applied for the day off, she said. ``None of this is on government 
time,'' she said. At FBI headquarters, spokesman Mike Korton said, 
``FBI employees, like other federal workers and citizens, have the 
right to express their views on issues they feel passionately about.'' 
___ On the Net: House Judiciary Committee: http://www.house.gov/judiciary 
Leonard Peltier Defense Committee: http://www.freepeltier.org No Parole 
Peltier Association: http://www.noparolepeltier.com