Mobs seeking to topple Slobodan Milosevic turned their fury on his 
centers of power Thursday, leaving parliament and other key Belgrade 
sites in shambles and flames. The 13-year rule of the Yugoslav president 
appeared to have collapsed. Opposition leader Zoran Djindjic said 
Milosevic was holed up near the eastern town of Bor, some 50 miles 
southeast of the capital, near the border with Romania and Bulgaria. 
He said Milosevic had not been in touch with the opposition camp. 
``As of today, Serbia is again a democratic nation,'' declared an 
opposition leader, Nebojsa Covic, referring to Yugoslavia's main republic. 
``It belongs to all of us, to Europe and to the world.'' By nightfall 
the crowd's fury was spent as the symbols of Milosevic's power __ 
police stations, state media __ had fallen to the opposition. Huge 
crowds wandered the streets and gathered in the squares celebrating 
their apparent victory. Opposition leaders, including some former 
senior military officers, appealed to the armed forces to support 
their candidate, Vojislav Kostunica. State media said that army commanders 
were meeting in Belgrade early Friday and that a statement was expected. 
Djindjic said shortly before dawn Friday that he felt ``the critical 
period'' overnight when Milosevic military could have counterattacked 
against the opposition supporters ``was over.'' On Thursday, hundreds 
of thousands of people swarmed through the capital to demand that 
Milosevic accept his apparent electoral defeat by Kostunica in the 
Sept. 24 election. The uprising developed with stunning speed, swelling 
as security forces showed little willingness to battle the largest 
anti-Milosevic protest ever. Some police who did fire on demonstrators 
were beaten, as was the director of Serbian state television, Dragoljub 
Milanovic, one of Milosevic's closest allies. He was punched, kicked 
and pummeled with sticks as he tried to flee the television station. 
The government's Tanjug news agency, which defected to the opposition, 
said two people were killed and 65 injured in the rioting. All but 
12 of the injured were treated and released from hospitals, Tanjug 
said. Many police put down their clubs and joined flag-waving crowds 
as they surged across central Belgrade through clouds of tear gas. 
As demonstrators charged and riot police cowered behind helmets and 
shields, the federal parliament building, the state broadcasting center 
and police stations fell in quick succession. Protesters tossed documents 
and portraits of Milosevic through the broken windows of the parliament 
complex. Smoke billowed from the building and from the state television 
headquarters nearby. Elsewhere in the country, thousands more people 
joined smaller rallies in a number of towns. ``What we are doing today 
is making history,'' Kostunica proclaimed during an evening speech 
in front of Belgrade city hall, across from parliament. The opposition's 
domino-like successes did not fully erase fear that Milosevic could 
strike back. ``The most critical moments are not over,'' said Vuk 
Obradovic, a former general turned opposition leader. ``It is very 
important that people stay in the streets.'' Kostunica asked supporters 
continue demonstrating until dawn to try to block any possible counterattack 
by the military. Tens of thousands were still heeding his call as 
dawn approached Friday, roaming the streets in impromptu celebrations. 
Kostunica also appealed to people from the countryside to stream into 
Belgrade for rallies Friday. ``We call on the military and police 
to do everything to ensure a peaceful transition of power,'' he said. 
The crowd chanted for Milosevic's arrest. Kostunica answered: ``He 
doesn't need to be arrested. He arrested himself a long time ago.'' 
At the White House, President Clinton said: ``The people are trying 
to get their country back.'' British Prime Minister Tony Blair said 
of Milosevic: ``Your time is up. Go now.'' Commenting on the possibility 
that Milosevic could strike back, National Security Adviser Sandy 
Berger said: ``There are a lot of rumors swirling around and I would 
take them all with a certain grain of salt at this point. Again, we 
have no reason at this stage to believe that he's not still in Serbia.'' 
A statement from Milosevic's Socialist Party of Serbia in the early 
hours of the clashes said it would ``fight against violence and destruction'' 
with ``all its force and in all state institutions.'' No further statement 
was made. A former Yugoslav army chief of staff, retired Gen. Momcilo 
Perisic, appealed to the armed forces to support the democratic forces. 
He said what was left of the police force had already agreed not to 
attack people ``unless they break into public buildings and cause 
damage.'' ``I talked to the army leaders and they promised not to 
intervene,'' Perisic said without elaborating. Perisic said, however, 
that Milosevic and his allies are ``determined'' and there remains 
a chance they might be planning a counterattack from somewhere ``outside 
Belgrade.'' During an interview on state television, Kostunica said 
he envisions a democratic Serbia that has normal relations with other 
countries and does not suffer under diplomatic sanctions. The United 
States and the European Union have imposed sanctions against the Milosevic 
regime for several years. But French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine 
said France, which holds the rotating EU presidency, is ``taking the 
necessary steps'' for the EU to reconsider the sanctions as soon as 
Monday. The collapse of Milosevic's institutions in Belgrade was extraordinary. 
As clashes spread through the capital, the streets echoed with the 
sound of stun grenades and tear gas fired in an unsuccessful attempt 
to break up the crowds. Later, both state television channels went 
off the air before coming back on under opposition control, and the 
state-run Tanjug news agency _ one of chief pillars of Milosevic's 
rule _ announced it is no longer loyal to him. ``From this moment, 
Tanjug informs the Yugoslav public that it is with the people of this 
country,'' a statement carried by the agency said. Another Tanjug 
report referred to Kostunica as ``President-elect of the Federal Republic 
of Yugoslavia.'' The conquest of the parliament was highly symbolic. 
But the loss of the state media and the government-run newspaper Politika 
was a bigger blow to Milosevic, denying him his biggest propaganda 
tools. The Yugoslav military remained in its barracks and it was unclear 
whether the army remained loyal to Milosevic, but his security forces 
appeared to be disintegrating, with protesters seizing police precincts 
without a fight. The level of defiance was unprecedented in Yugoslavia's 
55-year communist history. ``They're giving up,'' said a demonstrator 
who identified himself only as Sasha. The government acknowledges 
that Kostunica won more votes than Milosevic, but says he fell short 
of a majority in the five-candidate race. A runoff had been set for 
Sunday. The president has already countered in the courts in an apparent 
bid to cling to power: The Milosevic-controlled Yugoslav Constitutional 
Court issued a decision Wednesday that Tanjug said nullified ``parts'' 
of the election. The ruling outraged opposition supporters, who had 
brought the case in hopes Kostunica would be declared the winner. 
Hundreds of thousands of people broke through police convoys and streamed 
into Belgrade for Thursday's opposition rally, and the melees erupted 
as the rally was beginning. One attempt to storm parliament was repulsed 
by tear gas, but following waves of protesters broke through. By late 
afternoon, opposition supporters who had been inside the parliament 
building were climbing through the windows and onto the complex's 
balconies, waving flags as the crowd roared below. Inside the building, 
chaos reigned. Gangs of young people, many of them intoxicated, roamed 
the building, smashing furniture and computers and looting what valuables 
they could carry. But police offered little resistance and the clashes 
ebbed. Afterward, as night fell, thousands of demonstrators walked 
the streets in a relatively relaxed atmosphere. Some were drunk and 
brandishing handguns. Many protesters wore paper caps with the slogan, 
``We'll Endure.'' They moved past shops, some shut down with signs 
stating, ``Closed because of Robbery'' _ an allusion to opposition 
claims that Milosevic stole the elections. Several shop windows were 
shattered, and by evening orange flames still billowed from part of 
the parliament building. Big trucks with loudspeakers drove through 
Belgrade blasting folk and rock music. The downtown headquarters of 
the Yugoslav Left, the neo-communist party run by Milosevic's wife, 
was demolished, with the graffiti ``People's Revolution'' sprayed 
on inside walls. More than 100,000 people gathered in front of parliament 
before Kostunica's evening speech. Protesters _ from burly farmers 
to black-robed Serbian Orthodox priests _ waved Yugoslav flags outside 
the building. The crowd chanted ``Kill him! Kill him!'' as opposition 
leaders claimed victory over Milosevic. ``At this moment, terror rules 
in Belgrade,'' state television said in a commentary earlier, before 
a bulldozer broke into its headquarters and the opposition took it 
over. ``They are attacking everyone they see on the streets and there 
is chaos.''