In Dammaj, it can be dangerous to mention America. In this dusty village 
in northern Yemen, on the edge of the great Arabian desert called 
the Empty Quarter, it is enough to mention the United States among 
the thousands of Islamic militants who teach and study here, to furrow 
brows, darken voices and set trigger fingers tightening. Long after 
the fashion began to fade among the ayatollahs of Iran, the militants 
of Dammaj still call America ``the Great Satan.'' Though a few American 
Muslims have come here as talibs, or seekers after Islamic truths, 
the best advice to other Americans would surely be: stay clear. In 
the village's heart, at a sprawling compound guarded by bushy-bearded 
men flourishing Kalashnikov rifles, one of the Arab world's most militantly 
anti-Western Islamic clerics has his base. His name is Sheik Muqbel 
bin Hadi al-Wadie. He is 70, and a font of vituperation against the 
United States and Israel, Christians and Jews. Years after he became 
a force here, few outside the closed world of Islamic militancy, other 
than Western scholars and counterterrorism experts, have heard of 
him. But Muqbel is no stranger to the FBI, who know him as a seminal 
influence on Osama bin Laden, the FBI's most wanted terrorist. Long 
before the Oct. 12 bombing of the destroyer Cole in Aden harbor, 400 
miles away at Yemen's southern tip _ an attack investigators have 
linked in numerous but so far inconclusive ways to bin Laden's terrorist 
network _ the FBI saw Muqbel's study centers, particularly the one 
at Dammaj, as incubators for the Islamic holy war that bin Laden has 
declared against the United States. Muqbel says the center, known 
as Dar al-Hadith, or House of the Prophet's Sayings and Deeds, is 
strictly a theological school _ albeit one that propagates a purist, 
militant, stridently anti-Western form of Islam known as Salafism, 
which Arab and Western scholars say is at the core of bin Laden's 
beliefs. In effect, Salafism is a still harder-line version of Wahabism, 
the puritanical form of Islam that bin Laden absorbed during his formative 
years in Saudi Arabia. The essence of Salafism _ from the Arab word 
salaf, meaning ancestor _ is that Muslims should shun the corrupt 
ways of the modern world and return to the austerity and zeal of the 
Prophet Muhammad, who died nearly 1,400 years ago. At Dammaj, it has 
become a way of life for at least 3,000 students from all over the 
Muslim world, particularly from nations with a history of radicalism 
_ Afghanistan, Algeria, Libya, Somalia and Sudan, even Indonesia and 
Malaysia. In recent years, dozens of Westerners, mostly of Arab descent, 
have arrived at the center from the United States and Britain and 
other European countries. Muqbel says the students stay at least 5 
years, sometimes as many as 10 to 15. There are no television sets, 
no newspapers, no music, no women, no education other than study of 
the Koran and Islamic teachings, and no electricity, except for purposes 
judged essential, such as the loudspeakers and antennas used by Muqbel. 
In the sheik's view, the most dangerous enemies of Islam, before the 
United States and Israel, are Western life and culture _ democracy, 
pluralism, tolerance and any kind of voting. In a rare interview five 
months ago with The Yemen Times, an English-language newspaper, he 
made the point bluntly. ``In Islam,'' he said, ``there is nothing 
such as appreciating the viewpoint of a person if it is against Islamic 
regulations.'' The sheik, who allows no photographs of himself or 
his centers and rarely meets outsiders, denied that weapons training 
is part of the curriculum at Dammaj _ something Western diplomats 
in Sana, the Yemeni capital, say has been suspected for years. In 
Yemen, where the government says there are 65 million guns for 18 
million people, weapons of all kinds can be bought openly, without 
licenses. The best-equipped arms bazaar in the country, with an inhibiting 
display of heavy weapons, is in a village not far from Dammaj. In 
July, the sheik's assurances looked awkward when a 16-year-old British 
boy, a student at Dammaj, was shot to death, allegedly when a gun 
his older brother was cleaning accidentally discharged. Twice in two 
months, two years earlier, the sheik narrowly escaped assassination 
when bombs exploded outside mosques he controls in Sana and Aden. 
Faced with embarrassing headlines, the sheik went public. ``Our movement 
is purely to teach the concepts of the Koran,'' he told The Yemen 
Times. In any event, he said, it would not be possible for his movement 
to acquire enough weapons to mount a serious challenge to its enemies. 
``We do not have any training camp, and we do not train students in 
using weapons,'' he said. ``We are a peaceful movement working on 
spreading the concepts of Islam in a peaceful manner to the students 
who come from everywhere in the world.'' The Koran, he added, was 
more powerful than ``rifles, or even tanks.'' All the same, Western 
intelligence agencies say that Salafists, including many graduates 
of Dammaj, have been among the most feared fighters in Afghanistan, 
Algeria, Chechnya and Kashmir. They say that Dammaj and five other 
centers run by Muqbel across Yemen, even if not military camps, act 
as ideological proving grounds for young Muslims who go on to train 
elsewhere, often in Afghanistan, and to become terrorists. Because 
of Muqbel's tight security, barring access to all but Muslims who 
have been screened, it is virtually impossible for outsiders _ even 
Yemeni government officials _ to know what is going on inside the 
center. But it takes little time traveling through this region to 
discover how hospitable a terrain this can be for bin Laden and his 
beliefs. Muqbel's title is a religious one, adopted after a lifetime 
spent teaching his militant brand of Islam in Yemen and Saudi Arabia. 
It was in Saudi Arabia where he spent three months in jail in the 
early 1980s for his links to a militant Islamic group that in 1979 
occupied the holiest shrine in Islam at Mecca, setting off a showdown 
in which hundreds were killed. But not far from Dammaj, there are 
dozens of other sheiks, a title that can also mean a tribal leader, 
and they represent the old Bedouin ruling class that still controls 
vast stretches of land that arc around Yemen's tense 1,500-mile frontier 
with Saudi Arabia. Resentful of the 20th-century rise of powerful 
national governments in Yemen and Saudi Arabia, the northern tribal 
leaders have long regarded bin Laden _ one of more than 50 children 
of Muhammad bin Laden, a Yemeni who immigrated as a porter to Saudi 
Arabia in 1931 and built one of the Middle East's largest construction 
companies _ as a potential ally. Three years ago, said one of the 
tribal sheiks, this resulted in a secret encounter that brought together 
30 tribal sheiks with two emissaries sent by bin Laden from Afghanistan, 
where he has been hiding since 1996. Bin Laden's purpose, it was said, 
was to seek the tribal leaders' consent to move to Yemen _ a desire 
he acknowledged shortly before in an interview with Al Quds al Arabi, 
an Arab-language newspaper published in London. Sheik Muhammad bin 
Shajea, who controls an area of thousands of square miles deep in 
the desert along the Saudi Arabian border, said in an interview at 
his desert fort at Al Atfein, about 100 miles northeast of Dammaj, 
that he was among the tribal leaders who met the emissaries in the 
spring of 1997, at a tribal leader's home in Sana. He said terms were 
discussed for bin Laden's taking sanctuary somewhere in the sheiks' 
domains, where the writ of the national government barely reaches. 
``They call him a terrorist, but that's what those in authority always 
say when they are challenged,'' the sheik said. ``We say, where is 
the impartial court to say whether it's bin Laden who is the terrorist, 
or his enemies? From our point of view, he's not only a great religious 
scholar, he's a Yemeni, even if his nationality is Saudi Arabian. 
So for us, his presence in Yemen would be quite natural.'' On its 
face, Sheik bin Shajea's candor about the offer could embarrass the 
Yemeni government, which has insisted that those who bombed the Cole 
are part of an international terrorist network, in all probability 
directed by bin Laden. (In an interview last week, President Ali Abdullah 
Saleh said evidence was still lacking to identify bin Laden positively 
as responsible for the bombing, but other high officials said they 
were ``personally convinced,'' based on the accumulating evidence, 
that bin Laden had conceived and directed the attack.) Bin Shajea 
said he and other sheiks had deep sympathy for bin Laden's Islamic 
beliefs, if not for his methods. But Yemenis who know the sheik say 
that he may have been grinding a different axe: the bitter dispute 
between the northern tribal chiefs and Saleh, over a June border agreement 
with Saudi Arabia that will cut sharply into the desert domains of 
the sheiks. These are thought to be rich with oil potential that would 
make traditional revenues from smuggling appear paltry. Saleh has 
vowed to proceed with the border pact to end a sometimes bloody dispute 
with Saudi Arabia that has simmered for 70 years, but bin Shajea, 
among others, has vowed to kill any survey teams seeking to demarcate 
a new border. In effect, the sheiks seem to be telling Saleh that 
they are prepared to make alliances wherever they can, even with bin 
Laden. For its part, the government dismisses bin Shajea as a turncoat: 
at one time, it says, a clandestine agent for Saudi Arabia, later 
an ally of Saleh's, now, apparently, a cohort of bin Laden's. And 
senior officials even question whether the meeting with the bin Laden 
emissaries occurred _ or occurred in the form the sheik claims. ``Sheik 
bin Shajea is the biggest liar in Yemen,'' one high-ranking official 
said. In Yemen, bin Laden would find deep deserts and high mountains 
in which to hide as well as a central government with little penetration 
in the tribal lands. In a sign he still has a Yemeni sanctuary in 
mind, bin Laden appeared for his most recent videotape attack on the 
United States _ relayed throughout the Middle East three weeks before 
the Cole bombing _ wearing the long dishdasha gown, and tribal dagger, 
favored in the Yemeni province that is his family's ancestral home. 
In the 1996 interview with Al Quds al Arabi, bin Laden acknowledged 
he could not return to Sudan, where he operated until driven out by 
American pressure earlier that year. ``The choice is between Afghanistan 
and Yemen,'' he said then. ``The geography of Yemen is mountainous, 
and its people are armed tribespeople. It allows one to breathe clean 
air without humiliation.'' When Al Quds al Arabi's editor, Abdel Bari 
Atwan, asked if a move would be ``with or without the knowledge of 
the Yemeni government,'' bin Laden replied, ``Either.'' Already, Saleh, 
the Yemeni leader, seems tightly constrained in what he can do about 
the goings on at Dammaj, only five miles from Sadah, the regional 
government headquarters for northern Yemen. Before visiting Dammaj, 
this reporter was warned that Muqbel and his followers regard Western 
reporters as only slightly better than spies. Upon arrival, an armed 
guard at the study center's gate announced that Muqbel was away, being 
treated for a chronic liver ailment somewhere outside Yemen. Left 
free to wander, three visitors _ a reporter and two Arab-speaking 
companions _ plunged into the unchanging world of traditional Arabia. 
Just past dawn, the sun was casting a pinkish glow across the desert's 
honey-colored sand, the broad fronds of the oil palm trees and the 
mud-brick walls of the forts and homes. Students were stirring for 
the day's first prayers, and for the ritual wash that precedes them. 
From a nearby mosque, a muezzin's plaintive chants rang out across 
the desert, summoning the faithful to prayer. Initially, nobody showed 
much interest in the strangers moving along narrow alleyways, looking 
over the high walls of the center at the large, open-air auditorium 
with a corrugated-iron roof. It is the place the sheik delivers fire-breathing 
sermons that heap scorn on Christians and Jews, calling them, among 
other things, ``brothers of apes and pigs.'' Above the center's heavy 
steel gates, a lone sign proclaimed: ``Convert, and God will show 
you the way.'' Small boys on their way to school paused to chat. Ali, 
an 8-year-old orphan, spoke with passion about Muqbel, saying that 
the sheik had given homes to poor people. Older men followed, Libyans 
and Indonesians, Turks and Malaysians and Yemenis. But when a visitor 
became too adventurous, asking what the men thought of the United 
States, the mood changed to anger in a flash. Omar _ a Libyan who 
said he was 32 years old, dressed in white robes and a cylindrical 
black cap identifying him as a talib or religious student _ shook 
his fist and said: ``America can't do anything! It's God who commands 
everything, not America. America is nothing!'' An older man, also 
in white robes, accompanied by the armed guard who had been mounting 
a wary watch on the visitors, was summoned. The older man turned menacing, 
demanding passports, asking if the visitors were Americans, and implying 
they were spies on a reconnaissance mission. During several minutes 
of interrogation, a guard at the older man's side ostentatiously fingered 
the trigger of his Kalashnikov. But after retreating to talk quietly 
to yet another armed man, the older man turned and waved angrily in 
the direction of the open desert. With dust billowing behind them, 
the visitors reversed their four-wheel vehicle rapidly back up the 
alleyway. Turning the vehicle around and hardly daring to look back, 
they headed out across the bumpy desert, back toward the relative 
safety of what government control there is, the regional capital of 
Sadah.