Bombed by NATO during the Kosovo war and then burned by pro-democracy 
demonstrators, Serbia's state television and radio network remains 
an enormous prize for the new authorities as they work toward consolidating 
power in elections for a new Serbian government on Dec. 23. How they 
handle the bloated and degraded network is also a test of whether 
the new leaders, and the journalists themselves, can really break 
with the authoritarian past. Initial signs are discouraging. The new 
leaders, gathered in a broad 18-party coalition still known as the 
Democratic Opposition of Serbia, or DOS, have applied considerable 
political pressure on the temporary managers of the broadcasting empire. 
In general, even without the obvious abuses of the past, the journalists 
have slipped easily into being cheerleaders for the new democrats. 
Along with the police and the army, state television was considered 
an essential pillar of Slobodan Milosevic's 13-year rule. Its newscasts 
glorified the government, smeared the opposition, demonized the West, 
distorted facts and history and helped inspire Serbs to patriotism, 
paranoia, nationalism, conquest and war crimes against their neighbors. 
The network, owned by the government of Serbia and known by its initials, 
RTS, was among the first targets of the demonstrators who pushed Vojislav 
Kostunica into power. On Oct. 5, the downtown studios were seized 
and burned and the network's director, Dragoljub Milanovic, was nearly 
beaten to death. About 9 p.m., with the police capitulating and army 
troops remaining in their barracks, it was on Serbian state television 
that Kostunica wanted to show his face, to symbolize that he and his 
allies were now in charge. He was driven to a suburban studio with 
a handpicked interviewer, cameraman and editor. His words were not 
especially memorable, but for many Serbs his appearance was the real 
confirmation that Milosevic's power had crumbled. ``RTS represents 
not just a media problem but a problem of the whole society,'' said 
Snjezana Milivojevic, who has studied RTS for over a decade. ``We 
need a new legal and moral framework, with institutional guarantees, 
to ensure that the last 10 years can never happen again.'' Milivojevic, 
who is on a panel compiling new media regulations, said the future 
of the media in Yugoslavia would depend on the way RTS reorganized. 
But despite talk in the first days of the revolution about a ``new'' 
RTS _ democratic, open and free from undue political influence _ the 
new leaders seem reluctant to allow much independence. They have provided 
political advice and instructions on what to cover and whom to invite 
from the first night, Oct. 5, said Gordana Susa, the acting editor 
in chief of news at RTS. She heads an independent television production 
company and is president of the Independent Journalists Association 
of Serbia. ``Some leaders of the opposition act in the old way and 
want to put everything under their control,'' Susa said. ``Every day 
there is pressure from the political parties.'' The open pressure 
is especially troubling, Susa said, because the network's employees 
are so accustomed to toadying to power and so frightened for their 
jobs that they would favor the new authorities without even being 
asked. In the meantime, she admits, the news is awful: boring, predictable 
and uncritical. Zarko Korac, leader of a party in the coalition that 
unseated Milosevic, said the television presented ``a Darwinian problem 
of natural selection.'' Current employees ``can't think and just follow 
political instructions _ they couldn't make good programs even if 
they wanted to.'' Milivoje Mihajlovic, who worked for RTS, said it 
remained Serbia's worst television. ``It's obvious they still work 
in the same way. They've just changed their master.'' The problems 
are similar at Politika, the once respected state newspaper that became 
a mouthpiece for Milosevic. ``Of course people in RTS and Politika 
do what they are used to doing,'' said Aleksandar Nenadovic, 72, who 
was fired as Politika's editor by Tito, Yugoslavia's Communist ruler 
for 35 years. ``It's a function of the level of political evolution 
here. Everything is in ruins, so everyone is trying to reserve a place 
for themselves, and with the elections it's crucial to maintain control.'' 
Susa said the problems stemmed in part from the appointment of Nenad 
Ristic as acting director. Ristic, 60, ran RTS from 1985 to 1990 and 
then moved, under political pressure, to producing harmless shows, 
he said, about ``ecology, bugs and insects.'' Susa said, ``DOS called 
an old man to be the new general manager who accepts all their requests.'' 
The station's crisis committee, acting like a temporary management 
board, has fired him four times, but ``each time,'' she said, ``DOS 
tells them to calm down and not create chaos'' before the elections. 
The new authorities also put pressure on RTS to stop a documentary 
about the way the station had been used to foment war and hatred, 
and then urged that further segments be shown late at night. ``It 
was DOS's first effort to censor us,'' Susa said. Ristic says he is 
doing his best with a bad situation. He has brought key editors back 
from 1990 and urged about 60 people, editors and prominent reporters 
most associated with the old regime, not to come to work ``for their 
own safety.'' He has banned well-known faces from the air. As for 
the news, Ristic said, ``there is slavishness, and it's true that 
DOS gets most of the airtime.'' As the election nears, with other 
parties more active, there has been some improvement in balance. RTS 
currently has 8,018 employees on its books, Ristic said _ twice as 
many as CNN employs worldwide. While salaries for all but the loftiest 
were meager _ between 2,000 and 3,000 dinars a month, about $33 to 
$50 _ RTS had become a kind of social welfare agency for journalists 
too untalented or afraid to seek work elsewhere. Caught between a 
vague desire to modernize and a stronger wish to avoid violence, Ristic 
seems reluctant to let go even the most incompetent or compromised 
journalists. ``The first night we agreed there would be no revenge'' 
against those who served Milosevic, Ristic said. ``Most journalists 
here felt they had to do it. They didn't do it because they believed 
in it.'' But Mihajlovic says that too many journalists were working 
for the Milosevic regime, and journalists must take responsibility 
for their own profession. ``We have a dirty yard, and someone has 
to clean it. It would be better if journalists did, to teach people 
not to let it happen again. I think there is already too much forgiveness.'' 
Mihajlovic was an editor at Radio Pristina, and says there was both 
censorship and self-censorship. He has been asked to return to work 
in nearby Prokuplje to help cover Kosovo. ``They said to me, `You 
were kicked out, you were not theirs.' But I said: `I have to be honest. 
I worked as honestly as I could, but I was their editor. I don't have 
the moral right to pretend otherwise. I stayed. I needed the money 
to feed my family. I know I have to pay for that in one way or another.''' 
Mihajlovic's candor is rare. Ruzica Vranjkovic, 35, was an editor 
of the last evening news while covering energy. She still covers energy, 
but she is not allowed to have her face on television. ``It's silly,'' 
she said, but doesn't argue. ``Everything's unsettled, and there's 
a lot of fear. People treated it like a job. It was hard to stay, 
but I worked to live.''