President Clinton is expected to act in the next few days on some 
requests for presidential clemency and pardons he has received from 
scores of convicted Americans, the White House said Thursday. Among 
those seeking such presidential intervention are a Wall Street financier, 
an American Indian activist convicted of killing two FBI agents and 
a longtime Arkansas friend involved in the Whitewater probe. The president 
likely will act before Christmas, said White House press secretary 
Jake Siewert. ``But I don't think that will be the end of it,'' he 
added. ``I think he is going to try to review as many of these as 
he can, and I expect that there will be, in some sense, a rolling 
process that continues right up until the end of his term.'' Asked 
whether convicted Israeli spy Jonathan Pollard was on the list, Siewert 
replied: ``I wouldn't expect anything new on that.'' The administration 
has been reviewing Israel's request that Pollard be released. The 
former civilian analyst for the U.S. Navy was convicted of espionage 
in 1985 for giving Israel tens of thousands of top-secret documents. 
He was sentenced to life in prison. Earlier this week, a coalition 
of 675 clergy asked Clinton to commute sentences of nonviolent drug 
offenders. In a letter, the group asked the president to grant clemency 
and release on supervised parole those federal prisoners who have 
served at least five years for low-level, nonviolent involvement in 
drug cases. ``To find some of those drug offenders who deserve to 
be released, Clinton should appeal to the more than 600 federal trial 
judges, asking each to name at least one defendant whom he or she 
was required by mandatory sentencing laws to sentence to a term he 
or she thought was unjust _ the kind of cases that the judges lost 
sleep over,'' said Chap Thevenot, coalition coordinator. Among others 
who have asked Clinton for clemency: _Leonard Peltier, convicted of 
killing FBI agents Ron Williams and Jack Koler who were searching 
for robbery suspects on the Pine Ridge Indian reservation in South 
Dakota in June 1975. He was convicted and sentenced in 1977. The defense 
contended that evidence against him was falsified. _Susan McDougal, 
a former real estate business partner of the Clintons who was sentenced 
in 1996 and released from prison in 1998. She was convicted of four 
felonies related to a fraudulent $300,000 federally backed loan that 
she and her husband, failed savings and loan owner James McDougal, 
never repaid. About $30,000 of the loan was used as a down payment 
on property briefly placed in the name of Whitewater Development, 
the Arkansas real estate venture of the Clintons and McDougals. _Michael 
Milken, who made billions for himself and others in the 1980s junk 
bond business, was convicted of securities fraud, served 22 months 
of a 10-year sentence and paid over $1 billion in fines, restitution 
and legal settlements. Milken's pardon request is backed by one of 
Clinton's original benefactors, California supermarket mogul Ron Burkle. 
_Archie Schaffer III, a Tyson Foods executive convicted under a 1907 
law of trying to influence agricultural policy by arranging for then-Agriculture 
Secretary Mike Espy to attend a Tyson birthday party in Arkansas in 
1993.