The European Union will start dismantling its sanctions against Yugoslavia 
next week if the Serbian opposition manages to consolidate the success 
of its uprising against President Slobodan Milosevic, EU officials 
said Friday. The EU foreign ministers, who are to meet in Luxembourg, 
are expected to lift an oil embargo against Serbia, permanently remove 
a ban on commercial flights to and from Yugoslavia, and ease financial 
restrictions on Serb companies. ``If Vojislav Kostunica takes office 
over this weekend, then sanctions against Serbia will go on Monday 
when the European foreign ministers meet,'' British Foreign Secretary 
Robin Cook said in an interview with London's Sky Television News. 
However, EU officials stressed that it was too early to lift all sanctions, 
even if opposition leader Kostunica is confirmed in power. The U.N.-imposed 
arms embargo can be ended only by a Security Council resolution. The 
EU's asset freeze on Milosevic's friends and family, and its visa 
ban on Milosevic's entourage are expected to stay. ``We don't want 
a situation where some of the worst elements of the regime can get 
the money they've salted away and take it out of Serbia,'' said EU 
External Affairs Commissioner Chris Patten. Monday's meeting is also 
expected to consider freeing up some $2 billion in economic aid that 
the EU had earmarked for Serbia over the next seven years, in case 
Milosevic was thrown out. Patten played down concerns that handing 
over the aid could be complicated by Kostunica's declared resistance 
to cooperation with the international war crimes tribunal in the Hague, 
Netherlands. ``I don't think at this stage we should be starting to 
imagine circumstances where it will be difficult to work with Serbia,'' 
Patten told journalists in Brussels by live television link from Edinburgh, 
Scotland. EU foreign ministers promised last month that they would 
lift sanctions if Kostunica defeated Milosevic in Yugoslavia's Sept. 
24 elections. The 15-nation bloc delayed acting, however, as Milosevic 
refused to stand aside and demanded a runoff vote against Kostunica, 
who secured the most votes in the election. The EU imposed sanctions 
in response to Milosevic's repression of the opposition in Serbia 
and the crackdown by Yugoslav troops in Kosovo province, which provoked 
last year's NATO bombing campaign against Serbia.