President-elect Bush nominated defeated Missouri Sen. John Ashcroft 
to be attorney general on Friday, choosing a conservative Republican 
who lost his re-election bid to a dead man. ``An effective attorney 
general must be a person of prudent character and executive ability,'' 
Bush said. He also said there must be a commitment to ``fair and firm 
and impartial administration of justice.'' ``I'm confident I found 
the correct person in John Ashcroft,'' he said. Ashcroft, 58, was 
a two-term governor of Missouri before he went to the Senate in 1994. 
Gov. Mel Carnahan challenged him for re-election in one of the feature 
Senate contests of 2000, but was killed in an airplane crash in October. 
His name remained on the ballot, and he won. His widow, Jean, was 
appointed to the Senate seat. Ashcroft said political defeat ``brings 
more than emotion and pain, it brings perspective.'' With the appointment, 
he said, it also brought a call to renewed and noble service. The 
senator, a favorite of Republican conservatives who had maneuvered 
against more moderate choices for the Justice Department, said he 
would ``strive to be a guardian of liberty and equal justice.'' Ashcroft, 
an ardent foe of abortion, said the rule of law ``knows no class, 
sees no color and bows to no creed,'' and that will be his guideline. 
``You have my word that I will administer the Department of Justice 
with integrity, I will advise your administration with integrity and 
I will enforce the laws ... with integrity,'' he promised Bush. At 
a news conference after the announcement, Bush said of Ashcroft, ``This 
is a person who believes in civil rights for all citizens.'' In other 
developments: _Virginia Gov. James Gilmore is Bush's pick to head 
the Republican National Committee, according to GOP sources. _ The 
Rev. Floyd Flake, a former Democratic congressman and charter school 
proponent from New York, said Friday that he had withdrawn his name 
from consideration as education secretary. ``I made a decision that 
the issues that led me out of Congress in the first place _ family, 
church, my work with charter schools _ were still priorities,'' Flake 
said after relaying his feelings to the Bush camp. Dealing with White 
House criticism of his suggestions that there are warning signs of 
an economic slowdown, Bush said it is foolish for anyone to suggest 
that he is trying to talk down economic prospects. Bush said one way 
to encourage consumption and enhance consumer confidence ``would be 
to let the people have some of their own money back.'' ``There are 
clear warning signs, warning signs which will require action in the 
halls of Congress,'' Bush said in a push for his $1.3 trillion, 10-year 
tax cut proposal. He was asked about his apparent difficulty in finding 
a secretary of defense. ``I would characterize my search as deliberate,'' 
he said. Former Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind., long considered a sure-bet 
to become the Pentagon chief, remains a leading candidate, but Bush 
has told advisers he needs more time to consider his options. Other 
candidates include Paul Wolfowitz and Richard Armitage, who both served 
under Vice President-elect Dick Cheney when he was defense secretary. 
Bush said he knows there is a lot of speculation but when he makes 
up his mind on Cabinet posts, he won't be acting on the basis of politics 
but on the basis of what is right for the country. Asked about a moratorium 
on the federal death penalty, Bush said he supported capital punishment 
``when it is administered fairly.'' Bush, who oversaw a record 40 
executions in Texas last year as governor and 152 over the course 
of six years, said he sees no reason for a moratorium on the death 
penalty at the federal level. ``If there is compelling evidence that 
the system is not swift and sure and just, I will listen'' on any 
death penalty case, Bush said. ``His views are the correct views,'' 
Ashcroft said. The president-elect also has selected New Jersey Gov. 
Christie Whitman to head the Environmental Protection Agency, according 
to several GOP officials. Bush was expected to make more announcements 
later Friday. He also was meeting with state agriculture industry 
leaders. Another GOP governor, Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin, hopes 
to follow Whitman into the Bush administration. Senior Republicans 
in Washington and Wisconsin said Thompson accepted Bush's offer in 
a Thursday morning telephone call to be Health and Human Services 
secretary. They said the announcement would be made next week. However, 
two senior Bush advisers said the president-elect had not quite closed 
the deal with Thompson. All the officials spoke on condition of anonymity. 
In his presidential campaign, Bush faced criticism from Democrats 
and some conservationists for his stewardship of the environment in 
Texas, where he had been governor since 1995 until his resignation 
Thursday. Environmentalists argued he didn't fight pollution aggressively 
enough; During his second term, Houston became the nation's smoggiest 
city. Indeed, the EPA itself intends to review clean-air plans the 
state was forced to submit earlier this month because of persistent 
smog. Bush contended the state's air improved on his watch, and said 
he was behind major air-quality improvement initiatives. Whitman, 
54 and a Republican, championed open-space preservation in New Jersey 
and refused to abandon an unpopular auto emissions test designed to 
reduce air pollution. Critics said that to attract businesses, she 
compromised water pollution protections and cut spending for state 
offices that prosecute environmental abuses by industry. Sierra Club 
Executive Director Carl Pope said Whitman has a ``mixed record on 
the environment, but on balance we believe the Sierra Club could work 
with her.'' As head of an agency created by President Nixon 30 years 
ago, Whitman would have to decide whether to pursue Clinton administration 
environmental initiatives. For instance, the EPA currently is seeking 
substantial new pollution controls on coal-fired power plants in the 
Midwest that pollute the Northeast. She has supported the EPA position.