bill clinton, of course, is still president for another month, and 
today started exercising some of the powers still at his disposal, 
issuing presidential pardons to law breakers, big and small. our report 
tonight from nbc's andrea mitchell. at the top of today's list, dan 
rostenkowski, once one of the most powerful democrats in washington, 
the former chairman of the house ways and means committee, close ally 
of former president bush, charged six years ago with two counts of 
mail fraud. i will wash away the mud that has been splattered on my 
reputation. later pleaded guilty, served 13 months in jail. today 
shocked, emotional when we call to tell him he has a christmas pardon. 
i was elated. what was so sad was i was alone in my office, my wife 
had just left me. she was going shopping, and i had nobody to tell. 
also pardoned today arkansas food magnate longtime clinton fundraiser, 
archie shaeffer, convicted of trying to influence former agriculture 
secretary mike espy even though espy was cleared. and the president 
commutes the sentences of three nonviolent drug offenders, including 
dorothy gaines serving 19 years for permitting a boyfriend to keep 
crack cocaine in her house. she left behind three children whose lives 
have been devastated by her confinement. no physical evidence ever 
connected her to the crime. still not decided pardons for more controversial 
offenders like former junk bond king, michael milken, pleaded guilty 
to six counts of securities fraud ten years ago. his biggest supporter 
ron burkle frequent host to the clintons, contributes millions to 
the democrats. even more controversial -- convicted spy jonathan pollard, 
israel wants him released, national security officials don't. and 
unlikely to be pardoned say white house officials, leonard peltier, 
native american leader convicted of killing two fbi agents at wounded 
knee 25 years ago. the subject of a rare fbi protest rally last week. 
the most likely pardons before the president leaves office sources 
say, clinton friends, webster hubbell and susan mcdougal, convicted 
as part of the whitewater vest gaigs, cases the president feels should 
never have been prosecuted. andrea mitchell, nbc news, washington.