In the first batch of pardons of his final holiday season in the White 
House, President Clinton Friday pardoned 59 people including Dan Rostenkowski, 
the once-powerful chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, 
a man whose conviction exemplified the passing of an old-fashioned 
style of leadership in Congress. Rostenkowski, who was reared by the 
Chicago Democratic political machine, brought to Congress a mastery 
of the game of legislation with its premium on brokering, bluffing, 
and figuring out the compromise that gives the little required but 
gets a bit more in return. He served 15 months in prison and two months 
in a halfway house after pleading guilty to two counts of mail fraud 
in 1996. He also paid a $100,000 fine. Although Rostenkowski pleaded 
guilty, he always dismissed his offenses as merely giving away ashtrays 
and chairs and hiring the children of his friends. While he was held 
in disdain by some younger, reform-minded members of Congress, many 
admired him for his ability to get things accomplished. He spent most 
of his 36 years in the House as either a member or the chairman of 
its most powerful committee while it engaged in legislative feats 
like the creation of Medicare and the 1986 overhaul of the tax code. 
Included in the president's pardon list were some other notable choices, 
including commutations of sentences for two women jailed on drug charges 
who had received longer sentences for their involvement than the people 
who ran the operations. The two women, Kemba Smith, 28, of Richmond, 
Va., and Dorothy Gaines, 42, of Mobile, Ala., have been the object 
of campaigns by opponents of mandatory minimum sentences imposed by 
Congress. Smith was sentenced to 24 years and six months in prison 
with no chance of parole for helping her boyfriend, the head of a 
violent drug ring, and Gaines received 19 years, seven months for 
her low-level role in a different drug ring. They may now be freed 
within days. Also pardoned was Archibald R. Schaffer 3rd, a longtime 
friend of President and Hillary Rodham Clinton from Arkansas. Schaffer, 
an executive with Tyson Foods, was sentenced in September to a year 
in prison for his role in a scheme to illegally influence Mike Espy, 
the former agriculture secretary. Schaffer, who was the director of 
government and media relations for Tyson, the large poultry and food 
processing company, was convicted of giving Espy $2,500 worth of air 
transportation so he could attend a May 1993 party in Arkansas hosted 
by Tyson executives. Prosecutors argued that the gift was aimed at 
influencing Espy to relax regulations aimed at promoting safe meat 
handling. The trial judge, James Robertson, said that Schaffer's role 
in the Espy visit was so minor he did not want to impose a prison 
sentence but was obliged to by the Meat Inspection Act, a statute 
that set a one-year minimum sentence for its violation. What was unusual 
in the pardon of Schaffer was that he had not yet served any of his 
sentence. Margaret C. Love, the former pardon attorney in the Justice 
Department, a nonpartisan post, and an authority on the pardon power, 
said it would have been customary in such a circumstance to provide 
a commutation of sentence. In those rare instances in which a pardon 
is given for a sentence not yet served, she said, it usually signifies 
that the president disagrees with the conviction. As an example, she 
cited the Christmas season pardons by President Bush in 1992 of six 
people convicted in the Iran-contra affair. White House officials 
said that Friday's list was probably not the last word on presidential 
pardons as Clinton exits the White House. Although Schaffer was an 
Arkansas associate of the Clintons, he was convicted in an investigation 
peripheral to Whitewater, the six-year-long investigation of the Clintons 
involving transactions in Arkansas. Among those who are still being 
considered for pardons, administration officials said, are several 
people associated with the Whitewater investigation including Webster 
Hubbell and Susan McDougal, both Arkansas friends of the Clintons. 
Hubbell, once the No. 3 person in the Clinton Justice Department, 
was convicted of defrauding his law firm, and McDougal was convicted 
of fraudulently obtaining a $300,000 loan, part of which prosecutors 
said was used to pay expenses of the Whitewater real estate venture 
with the Clintons. The president is also considering requests for 
a pardon from Michael Milken, who was once the leading figure in marketing 
junk bonds and was convicted of six felonies. Milken has mounted an 
aggressive campaign to obtain a pardon. Among those pardoned Friday 
were Peter Bailey Gimbel of New York, who was convicted on a cocaine 
distribution charge, and Philip J. Grandmaison, a Democratic Party 
operative in New Hampshire who was a Clinton delegate in 1992 and 
was convicted in a local bribery scheme.