President Clinton granted pardons Friday to 62 people, including Dan 
Rostenkowski, the former chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means 
Committee felled by a corruption scandal. The White House announced 
that Clinton also issued a pardon to Archie Schaffer III, an Arkansas 
chicken company executive ensnared in the corruption investigation 
of former Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy. And he commuted the sentences 
of three others, including two women entangled in drug cases who got 
lengthy prison terms because of mandatory sentencing laws, the White 
House said. Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat, pleaded guilty in 
federal court to two counts of mail fraud and was sentenced to 17 
months in prison and $100,000 in fines back in 1996. It was the final 
act of a legal and political drama that began two years earlier when 
prosecutors probed the misuse of taxpayer funds. Prosecutors said 
Rostenkowski, long among the most powerful figures in Washington, 
used public funds to pay employees who did little or no work, and 
to buy personal gifts. Rostenkowski's pardon was a surprise _ his 
name was not among those floating about town in recent weeks as Clinton's 
presidency draws to an end. The pardons are among the acts of presidential 
clemency that Clinton is weighing over the holidays. Others under 
consideration include former Wall Street financier Michael Milken 
and Whitewater figure Susan McDougal. Schaffer, the chief spokesman 
for the Arkansas-based poultry producer, was convicted by a jury under 
a 1907 law of trying to influence agricultural policy by arranging 
for Espy to attend a Tyson birthday party in Arkansas in 1993. ``I 
feel great. This is wonderful news,'' Schaffer said in a telephone 
interview with The Associated Press from his lawyer's office in Fayetteville, 
Ark. ``I would have preferred to have been vindicated by the judicial 
system. We were prepared to continue battling that, but we're pleased 
with this outcome as well.'' Both Republicans and Democrats in his 
home state had urged Clinton to pardon Schaffer, arguing the spokesman 
was convicted under an obscure law by an independent counsel seeking 
to build a case against Espy. Espy was eventually acquitted. Even 
the federal judge who oversaw the case said he believed Schaffer was 
innocent and twice tried to acquit him, only to be reversed by an 
appeals court. U.S. District Judge James Robertson reluctantly sentenced 
Schaffer to a year and one day in prison and a $5,000 fine, the minimum 
that he said was allowed under the Meat Inspection Act. The extra 
prison day would have made Schaffer eligible for good-behavior credits 
that could free him nearly two months early, the judge said. Besides 
the pardon pleas, Schaffer supporters wrote nearly 100 letters to 
Robertson asking that he show leniency. Schaffer, the nephew of former 
Arkansas governor and U.S. Sen. Dale Bumpers, D-Ark., served in Bumpers' 
administrations and led a business group studying educational reforms 
during Clinton's tenure as governor. Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee and 
Sen. Tim Hutchinson, both Republicans, were among those who pleaded 
with Clinton to pardon Schaffer. ``I think Archie is deserving and 
that he's gone through a lot,'' Hutchison said. ``I'm pleased with 
the president's decision. He's gone through trial after trial and 
appeals.'' The sentencing was one of the final items in Independent 
Counsel Donald Smaltz's six-year, $23 million investigation of Espy. 
Jurors acquitted Espy in December 1998. The officials said the two 
others Clinton planned to pardon are: _Kemba Smith, 28, of Richmond, 
Va., who had been sentenced to 24 years and six months in prison with 
no chance of parole for helping her boyfriend Peter Hall, head of 
a violent drug ring. _Dorothy Gaines, 42, of Mobile, Ala., who similarly 
received 19 years, seven months for her low-level role in a local 
drug ring. The men who actually ran it received more lenient sentences. 
Both women were subjects of a national campaign by women's groups 
and opponents of mandatory minimum prison sentences.