President Vojislav Kostunica's followers promised sweeping reforms 
as the first official results suggested pro-democracy forces captured 
an overwhelming majority of seats in the Serbian parliament, a main 
locus of power in Yugoslavia. Initial results announced shortly before 
noon on Sunday indicated Kostunica's camp secured 177 seats in the 
250-member legislature _ more than the two-thirds majority needed 
to change the constitution. The party led by former president Slobodan 
Milosevic was a distant second, with 38 seats. The results were based 
on more than 30 percent of ballots cast, the state election commission 
said. In addition to Milosevic's Socialist Party, two other parties 
made it into the assembly: the ultranationalist Radical Party, with 
22 seats, and the hard-line Serbian Unity Party, with 13. Further 
results were expected later Sunday, but no major shifts were expected. 
Milosevic's once-dominant Socialist Party had already conceded defeat, 
and Kostunica's Democratic Opposition of Serbia began celebrating 
victory after the polls closed Saturday night. ``The democratic reconstruction 
of Serbia and Yugoslavia will be completed after these elections,'' 
Kostunica said on Serbian state television. ``In a few days, we'll 
have a new parliament and government which will be able to tackle 
corruption and other problems ahead.'' Saturday's results in Serbia's 
elections will enable the democratic movement to complete the revolution 
set in motion when Kostunica defeated Milosevic for the Yugoslav presidency 
Sept. 24. Milosevic refused to accept the result and called for a 
runoff, triggering riots Oct. 5 that forced him to concede defeat. 
The pro-democracy forces also indicated they would head for a showdown 
with leaders of Milosevic's discredited government. Despite the change 
in Yugoslav leadership, Milosevic's allies had still controlled key 
power levers in Serbia, such as the judiciary and the 60,000 strong 
police force. Serbia accounts for more than 90 percent of Yugoslavia's 
population of 10 million. ``We won the elections, but a huge job is 
ahead of us,'' said prime minister designate Zoran Djindjic. ``The 
government will work 24 hours a day for the people.'' Without a strong 
party to back him in the new parliament, Milosevic is now vulnerable 
to prosecution for running the country during his 13 years in power. 
Kostunica has refused to extradite Milosevic to the U.N. war crimes 
tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands, but wants to try him and others 
in Yugoslavia. ``The elections show that people want a decisive showdown 
with the former regime,'' said pro-democracy leader Zarko Korac. ``The 
Democratic Opposition of Serbia needs courage to do it.'' The Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe, whose 350 observers monitored 
the balloting, approved the vote. ``Fundamental freedoms were respected 
and election law was implemented transparently, impartially,'' said 
mission head Adrain Severin. The Socialists took some comfort in the 
fact that they will be the largest single party in the new parliament, 
since the Kostunica coalition includes 18 parties and is expected 
to breakup next year. The biggest loser was the neo-communist Yugoslav 
Left Party of Milosevic's wife, Mirjana Markovic, which looked likely 
to end up with less than 1 percent of the vote. Another loser was 
the Serbian Renewal Movement led by Vuk Draskovic, for years the undisputed 
leader of the anti-Milosevic camp. The initial results showed Draskovic's 
party, which refused to join the Kostunica coalition, fell short of 
the 5 percent mark needed to win seats in parliament. The biggest 
surprise was the performance of the Serbian Unity Party, created by 
indicted war crimes suspect Zeljko Raznatovic, or Arkan, who was assassinated 
in Belgrade in January. The party appears to have profited from Serbia's 
struggle against ethnic Albanian militants over a piece of territory 
in southern Serbia that borders Kosovo. The Serbs lost control of 
Kosovo last year after NATO's 78-day bombing campaign to stop Milosevic's 
crackdown against ethnic Albanians. ``We will do everything to protect 
Serbia, to free Serbia, to protect our country from further disintegration,'' 
party leader Borislav Pelevic said. Turnout was estimated at 60 percent. 
Many ethnic Albanians in Kosovo and in parts of southern Serbia bordering 
the province boycotted the vote, which they called invalid, and hundreds 
protested the election Saturday in Kosovo's capital, Pristina. A great 
majority of them want independence. Kosovo was the only region where 
the Socialist Party defeated pro-democrats. According to initial results 
in Kosovska Mitrovica, where most of Kosovo's remaining Serbs live, 
the Milosevic's party won 52 percent of the vote. Kostunica's coalition 
won 29 percent.