thanks for joining us. here's our story this half hour -- there's 
dancing in the streets of belgrade as angry demonstrations have turned 
into celebrations. tens of thousands of people crowded the streets 
of the yugoslavian capital today after the apparent overthrow of president 
slobodan milosevic. yesterday, protesters stormed key government buildings 
and seized serb state television in belgrade. russia has joined the 
west in its support of opposition leader vojislav kostunica. russian 
foreign minister igor ivanov congratulated kostunica on his election 
victory. he also gave him a letter from russian president vladimir 
putin. putin says he hopes the opposition leader will do "everything 
possible to overcome the internal political crisis" in yugoslavia. 
russia was the last european power to withhold support for the opposition. 
the man who lost power in yugoslavia finally surfaced today. slobodan 
milosevic met with russian foreign minister igor ivanov. ivanov says 
milosevic told him he plans to remain in serbia and continue to run 
its largest political party. indeed milosevic still considers himself 
to be president, according to his brother borislav. in an interview 
with cnn, borislav milosevic accused western nations of supporting 
the demonstrations and said his brother has no plans to leave the 
city. regardless of how many votes mr. kostunica received, the actions 
that took place last night are vandalism. it's violence. it shouldn't 
have happened. that's not democracy. the opposition didn't accept 
the ruling of the constitutional court and began to storm the parliament, 
which was not being defended, and inflicted huge material damage. 
but it also did more damage to our institutions. the next step in 
the transition to a new government is for the yugoslav parliament 
to convene. a commission set up to ensure the transfer of power is 
attempting to call lawmakers to belgrade for a special session. alessio 
vinci reports that may not happen until tomorrow because some members 
of parliament will have to travel to belgrade from montenegro. what 
is going on right now is intense negotiations with all the members 
of parliament that were elected on september trying to get the majority 
needed in order to swear in vojislav kostunica as the next president 
of yugoslavia. with the events of the past week in yugoslavia, the 
world is getting to know the name of vojislav kostunica. jonathan 
mann takes a look at the man and his politics. unlike president milosevic, 
he was not a communist in the long years when party membership was 
the key to power. he was not among the prominent opposition figures 
who have struggled against each other almost as hard as the regime. 
he is an orthodox serb nationalist, but he supports truer democracy 
for his country and better relations with its neighbors and the west. 
kostunica is a soft-spoken and uncharismatic figure who spent years 
building the democratic party of serbia and gathering only modest 
support. after ten years, people know what are the differences between 
milosevic's policies and ours. what milosevic was saying and promising 
and what the opposition parties and i myself was saying in these years 
and how i was behaving. kostunica is 56, an expert on constitutional 
law who lives with his wife and pets in a belgrade apartment. he was 
fired from his job teaching law in 1974 for his opposition to the 
policies of the tito government. he refused an offer to return in 
1989 because of his opposition to the milosevic regime. and he rejects 
much from the west as well -- the dayton peace accord, western sanctions 
on yugoslavia, and the war crimes tribunal. in the months before the 
election, he was careful to distinguish between his support for european 
aid projects tied to reform and u.s. efforts, which he describes as 
unhelpful, even to the opposition. i know what the support means when 
we get from european union, the programs like energy for democracy, 
school for democracy. those small projects. here we get nothing in 
advance, just a political support which consists of nothing, and which 
is mostly used and abused and manipulated by the regime. saying they 
are just nato parties, as is often said by regime, they are not having 
their own policy. jonathan mann, cnn. we'll be following the events 
in yugoslavia all day. to learn more about the situation, just click 
on our website at headlinenews.com.