Seven escaped convicts made good on a threat they made while breaking 
out of prison nearly two weeks ago, police said. ``You haven't heard 
the last of us yet'' read a note the men left when fleeing the Connally 
Unit in Kenedy on Dec. 13, said John McAuliffe, inspector general 
of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. The men are suspected 
in the shooting death of Officer Aubry Hawkins, 29, who attempted 
to break up a Christmas Eve robbery at an Oshman's sporting goods. 
``It certainly will be a Christmas to remember and for all the wrong 
reasons,'' said Jimmy Perdue, Irving's assistant police chief. Investigators 
have filed capital murder warrants against the seven escaped convicts 
who early Tuesday remained at large. Two dozen employees herded to 
the back of the store during the holdup helped identify the suspects, 
said Chief Lowell Cannaday. By Monday night, a makeshift memorial 
had taken shape at the sports store, closed in honor of the fallen 
officer. Outside, potted plants were left by the door and a large 
red ribbon adorned a bicycle rack. Hawkins' weapon has not been found 
since Sunday's incident. Police spokesman David Tull said he didn't 
know if the robbers took any weapons or ammunition from the store. 
The alleged robbers were accused of stealing an employee's white Ford 
Explorer to escape. The vehicle was found in Irving. It is unknown 
how they escaped afterward. In the prison break, the convicts took 
14 .357 Magnum pistols with 238 rounds of ammunition, a loaded automatic 
rifle and a loaded shotgun that they stole from a guard tower. Larry 
Fitzgerald, spokesman for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice, 
said it is unusual that the suspects have remained together since 
their escape. ``These are desperate and dangerous people,'' Fitzgerald 
said. The prison at Kenedy is 65 miles southeast of San Antonio and 
more than 300 from Irving. ___ On the Net: Irving Police Department: 
http://www.irvingpd.com/ Texas Criminal Department of Criminal Justice: 
http://www.tdcj.state.tx.us/