Seven escaped convicts may have carried out a threat they made when 
they broke out of prison nearly two weeks ago, police said. ``You 
haven't heard the last of us yet,'' read a note the men left when 
fleeing the Connally Unit in Kenedy on Dec. 13, said John McAuliffe, 
inspector general of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. Now, 
the men are suspected in the shooting death of Officer Aubry Hawkins, 
29, who attempted to break up a Christmas Eve robbery at an Oshman's 
sporting goods. ``It certainly will be a Christmas to remember and 
for all the wrong reasons,'' said Jimmy Perdue, Irving's assistant 
police chief. Investigators filed capital murder warrants against 
the seven convicts, who remained at large Tuesday. Two dozen employees 
herded to the back of the store during the holdup helped identify 
the suspects, said Chief Lowell Cannaday. A makeshift memorial had 
taken shape at the sports store, which was closed in honor of the 
fallen officer. Hawkins' weapon had not been found. Police spokesman 
David Tull said he didn't know if the robbers took any weapons or 
ammunition from the store. During the prison break, the convicts took 
14 .357-caliber Magnum pistols with 238 rounds of ammunition, a loaded 
automatic rifle and a loaded shotgun. It is unusual that the suspects 
have remained together since their escape, said Larry Fitzgerald, 
spokesman for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. ``These are 
desperate and dangerous people,'' Fitzgerald said. The prison, 65 
miles southeast of San Antonio and more than 300 from Irving, has 
a capacity of 2,834 male prisoners. It opened in July 1995 and has 
550 security personnel. The escape was the prison's fourth inmate 
uprising this year. In April, eight prisoners assaulted three officers, 
inflicting minor injuries, and in June an inmate severely beat a corrections 
officer. Also in June, another officer suffered minor injuries when 
she was stabbed six times by an inmate carrying a sharpened metal 
rod. ___ On the Net: Irving Police Department: http://www.irvingpd.com/ 
Texas Criminal Department of Criminal Justice: http://www.tdcj.state.tx.us/