A manhunt swept across north Texas on Tuesday after law enforcement 
officials linked a Christmas Eve robbery and the killing of a police 
officer to seven convicts who escaped from a state prison earlier 
this month. The seven men are now being sought on capital murder charges 
in the death of Aubry Hawkins, 29, a police officer killed Sunday 
night while investigating a robbery at an Oshman's sporting goods 
store in Irving, just west of Dallas. All seven escapees are considered 
armed and dangerous, according to Lori Bailey, a spokeswoman for the 
Dallas office of the FBI. ``We are very surprised to see that these 
convicts are still all together. That's highly unusual, in that it 
doesn't lend itself to concealment,'' she said. ``That's just an indicator 
of how bold they are, how brash they are, and of how dangerous they 
are.'' The convicts have been identified by Texas authorities as Joseph 
C. Garcia, who had been serving a 50-year sentence for murder; Randy 
Ethan Halprin, serving 30 years for injury to a child; Larry James 
Harper, sentenced to 50 years for aggravated assault and sexual assault; 
Patrick Henry Murphy Jr., serving a 50-year sentence for aggravated 
assault with a deadly weapon; Donald Keith Newbury, serving a life 
sentence for aggravated robbery with a deadly weapon; George Rivas, 
serving five years for burglary and kidnapping; and Michael Anthony 
Rodriguez, serving a life sentence for capital murder. Agents of the 
FBI, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, and the Texas Department 
of Public Safety joined local police and sheriff's departments in 
trying to track the escapees on Tuesday, officials said. According 
to the FBI and Irving police officials, the robbers entered the Oshman's 
store around 6 p.m. and herded 23 employees into a corner, where they 
were tied and handcuffed. Someone outside the store called police 
at around 6:30 p.m., saying that ``things just didn't look right at 
the front of the store,'' the officials said. Hawkins was the first 
policeman to arrive at the scene, and was apparently shot as the robbers 
escaped out the back. They fled in a Ford Explorer owned by the store's 
manager; officials said the vehicle was later found abandoned in Irving 
around midnight. Bailey said that the convicts had stolen cash and 
weapons from the store, but that she did not know whether Hawkins 
had exchanged gunfire with them. ``We just don't know yet whether 
the officer fired at them. His weapon is also missing,'' she said. 
Witnesses to the robbery identified all seven of the escaped convicts 
as participants, she said. Authorities thought they had the men cornered 
on Tuesday at a motel in Arlington and surrounded the building, Bailey 
said. But that turned out to be a false alarm, she said. On Dec. 13, 
the seven men overpowered their guards and impersonated a civilian 
work crew to escape from the John B. Connally Jr. maximum security 
prison 65 miles southeast of San Antonio, stealing 14 weapons and 
hundreds of rounds of ammunition during the breakout. A note left 
behind by the escapees warned that ``you haven't heard the last of 
us yet,'' Texas prison officials said Monday.