Ousted Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori pledged in an article Wednesday 
to mount a political comeback, but said he would not return soon to 
his homeland because of ``political persecution.'' Fujimori, who has 
been in self-imposed exile in Japan since November, was declared unfit 
for office by Peru's Congress after he resigned amid corruption scandals 
involving his former spy chief. Fujimori did not say whether his political 
future would include an attempted return to the presidency. But he 
vowed to remain in the arena. ``I am now determined to start anew 
and undertake a political program to make Peru a truly just and great 
country,'' Fujimori wrote in the article published Wednesday on the 
front page of the Yomiuri newspaper, the first of four installments. 
Fujimori, who ruled Peru for 10 years with an authoritarian hand, 
said he would embark on his new political program ``if and when the 
innumerable accusations now leveled against me are proved groundless.'' 
But he said ``political persecution'' by the new government made it 
unsafe for him to return to Lima for now. ``This is simply a revival 
of the Inquisition that occurred during the Middle Ages,'' Fujimori 
wrote, accusing his successor, interim President Valentin Paniagua, 
of mounting a campaign of persecution under the guise of fighting 
corruption. Earlier this month, the government in Tokyo announced 
that the 62-year-old Fujimori _ the son of Japanese immigrants _ held 
Japanese citizenship and therefore could stay indefinitely in the 
country. Tokyo's decision set off an outrage across Peru, where authorities 
are investigating Fujimori's connections with his one-time spymaster 
and top adviser, Vladimiro Montesinos. Montesinos, a fugitive rumored 
to be hiding out in Venezuela, is wanted on charges of money-laundering 
and influence-peddling. Fujimori, who has denied any wrongdoing, could 
also face charges if he returns to Peru. Fujimori said he chose exile 
in Japan to avoid potential violence between his supporters and enemies 
that could have broken out if he had returned. He said he also feared 
he could become a victim of that violence. ``Furthermore, I could 
not neglect the safety of my own life,'' he wrote.