In Russia, for example, many of the long-term reforms that Clinton 
talked about so passionately were never executed. In retrospect, Russia 
proved unwilling to phase out its role as arms merchant to rogue states, 
an unspoken quid pro quo for economic aid. ``We probably underestimated 
the basic difficulty of the institutional transformation of Russia,'' 
one senior official said. ``Was Russia in worse shape than we recognized 
in '96? Probably.'' But Rubin says: ``Whatever money we spent, it 
was worth it for a world in which we are not now in a nuclear standoff.'' 
Similarly the much-talked-about effort to build a ``global financial 
architecture'' has faded. There have been some changes _ countries 
now must reveal more financial information to investors, and the monetary 
fund has changed many of its lending practices _ but even the president 
has stopped talking about redesigning the world's financial system. 
Eventually the backlash from the crisis came full circle, colliding 
with Clinton's free-market dreams. The Asian crisis confirmed what 
many developing nations had suspected: Globalization was a rich country's 
game, and the rules were rigged to favor the most competitive. So 
when the United States proposed a further opening of world markets, 
developing nations struck back, starting in Seattle in late November 
1999. In an interview a few weeks ago, Clinton said: ``A lot of the 
people in these developing countries who were marching are mad at 
America because we, almost alone among the advanced countries, would 
like to have a global trading system that has minimum labor and environmental 
standards. And so a lot of them thought that's my indirect way of 
being a protectionist, in protecting the good jobs in America and 
keeping them poor.'' It was not the case, Clinton said. But he lost 
the argument, and the talks collapsed. The China accord, however, 
could eventually redefine America's relationship with Beijing. If 
Clinton is right, it could result in the erosion of the Communist 
Party's control. Elsewhere in the world, Clinton has adjusted his 
pitch. In the past year, he has talked far more about the fate of 
the poor. ``His Africa trips had a big impact,'' said James Steinberg, 
a deputy national security adviser until last summer. ``He saw with 
his own eyes that even when governments wanted to do the right thing, 
their huge debt and AIDS and other impediments, made it hard to get 
off the ground.'' But if there was a single moment at the end of Clinton's 
presidency that crystallized the successes and the limitations of 
his effort to use global capitalism to drag nations toward democracy, 
it came in Hanoi, on a Saturday afternoon last month. To the rising 
alarm of Vietnam's leaders, Clinton's trip was drawing huge crowds, 
among them former Vietcong guerrillas, who toted along their grandchildren 
to see the leader of the nation with which Vietnam once fought. ``He 
will bring the Internet,'' one aging veteran said, and then confessed 
that he had never sat in front of a computer. It was just what Clinton 
wanted to hear _ until he met Le Kha Phieu, the Communist Party's 
general-secretary, who had stopped many of the reforms Vietnam started 
in the early 1990s, warning that globalization was a fancy word for 
surrender. ``We have seen the collapse of the USSR,'' he told Clinton, 
and yet ``we are still on our feet, we have reaffirmed socialism.'' 
They spent the next hour politely arguing whether America had imperialist 
designs on Vietnam in the 1960s and, by implication, whether it had 
them now. The Vietnamese leader's message was clear: Just because 
we trade with you, don't expect us to embrace democracy. An hour later, 
Clinton got a much more mixed message from the mayor of Ho Chi Minh 
City, who asked about low-income housing and job creation. Which side 
will prevail? ``I don't think there's any way for us to bring openness 
and freedom to China or Vietnam more quickly than the one we've adopted,'' 
Clinton said later in an interview. But he added: ``I don't think 
freedom is inevitable, or the triumph of democracy is inevitable. 
But I think it is rendered far more likely by the power of our example 
and the strength of our engagement.''