This is The World. I am Tony Kahn. Just ahead, fine music from Israel. 
But first we have the answer to today's Geo Quiz. We were looking 
for Peru's second largest city and the answer is Edikipa, the unofficial 
capital of the Southern Peruvian highlands. Those remote highlands 
were rumored to be the place where Peru's disgraced spy chief Vladimir 
Montesinos fled to last October. Montesinos was President Alberto 
Fujimori's right hand man until he was caught on videotape bribing 
an opposition Congressman. The ensuing scandal led to the fall of 
both Fujimori and Montesinos. Where Vladimir Montesinos is now of 
course would be a terrific Geo Quiz. The problem is only one person 
would be able to answer it and he is not talking. Montesinos' whereabouts 
are the subject of international speculation and the subject of this 
report from The World's Quill Lawrence. Vladimir Montesinos has never 
liked the spotlight. In fact until just a few years ago, not a single 
photograph of Peru's spy chief had ever been published. He must be 
regretting even those photos now as he tries to elude the arrest warrant 
out for him in Peru. Montesinos originally fled to Panama, a favorite 
place for Latin American dictators of yore to claim asylum. After 
staying a month with his personal secretary and mistress, he returned 
to Peru in October and disappeared. From there on it's all rumors. 
Ecuadorian papers report that he was spotted sailing on his yacht, 
'The Charisma,' to the Galapagos Islands and that among his crew was 
a young Peruvian masseuse. Montesinos is alleged to have disguised 
himself either by losing weight and growing a beard or by dressing 
up as a woman, but presumably not both. His stay at the Blue Whale 
Hotel in the Galapagos is rumored to have lasted a week. Costa Rica's 
press picked it up from there. Montesinos is said to have entered 
the Central American nation via the Cocos Islands on a Venezuelan 
passport with yet a different woman at his side before flying off 
to the Caribbean Resort Island of Aruba. Venezuelan authorities have 
been busy denying that Montesinos then arrived in Caracas under the 
alias of Manuel Alexander Rodriguez Perez and underwent plastic surgery 
to change his appearance. They even went so far as to produce a Venezuelan 
named Manuel Alexander Rodriguez Perez and parade him before the media. 
Of course there are other rumors that Montesinos never left Peru in 
the first place or that he's already dead. Still you can be sure that 
new sightings of Montesinos will be reported from all over Latin America 
in the New Year. For The World, I'm Quill Lawrence.