good evening, everyone. upheaval in two of the world's most troubled 
places tonight. the middle east andoslavia. the scenes could hardly 
be more different n. yugoslavia, slobodan milosevic has finally con 
creeded defeat in last month's election. in the middle east, muslim 
protesters have declared a day of rage, clashing with israeli troops 
and police across the west bank and gaza, culminating in a battle 
in jrm jrm. eight splinz been killed today, bringing the total dead 
to 77. more on that situation in a moment. first what appears to be 
the transfer of power in yugoslavia. two reports beginning with nbc's 
jim maceda in belgrade. jubilant but exhausted serbs today picking 
up the pieces of their revolution. day one of what was, until yesterday, 
unthinkable -- a life not ruled by slobodan milosevic. happy, happy, 
happy, happy. "he stole everything from us," says this man. "our houses, 
our land. thank god we are now free." even milosevic, finally conceding 
defeat, appearing on serb tv, congratulating vojislav kostunica for 
his victory, saying he would spend more time with the family. some 
serbs celebrating their victory near the scarred remains of police 
vehicles, trashed by protesters. yesterday's uprising was perhaps 
the easy part. now, a whole nation of serbs must figure out what democracy 
is and how to govern in the void left by milosevic. president-elect 
kostunica under pressure at home and abroad to deliver, helped today 
by promises from the west that sanctions could be lifted as early 
as next week. there was more good news. the constitutional court confirming 
his electoral victory and a pledge from the yugoslav army that it 
would obey his authority. and in a massive show of support, over 200,000 
in the streets, to attend kostunica's inauguration, but the ceremony 
postponed. instead, a rock concert, followed by an orthodox church 
blessing. sources saying kostunica has other priorities, like what 
to do with milosevic. to that end, russian envoy igor ivanov, in belgrade 
today, meeting first with kostunica, then visiting milosevic at his 
residence -- the first sign of the yugoslav leader since the opposition 
takeover. in comments to reporters after those talks, ivanov suggests 
milosevic wants to remain a force in national serbian politics. "no 
way," say those on yesterday's front lines. it's over. he's an ordinary 
citizen now. their revolution behind them, serbs now hoping that life 
after 13 years of wars and hardship under milosevic can finally get 
back to normal. jim maceda, nbc news, belgrade. this is andrea mitchell 
in washington, where officials celebrate the opposition's victory, 
but despite milosevic's concession, still worry about him. the president 
calls the outcome astonishing, congratulates kostunica, but rejects 
any suggestion that milosevic stay or, even worse, have an official 
political role in yugoslavia. i think it would be a terrible mistake 
for him to remain active in the political life of his country. that 
is not what the people voted for. the u.s. spent $36 million over 
the last two years supporting the opposition. but can their victory 
stand? that could depend on whether russia is giving milosevic false 
hope of a political comeback. in moscow today, milosevic's brother 
-- says his brother will not flee, will stay. that, says a former 
russian foreign minister, is trouble. he is still a dangerous animal, 
though wounded, like they say in such cases. the next big question 
-- war crimes. milosevic and his circle indicted for atrocities in 
kosovo. today, the prosecutor says she's ready for him. i am prepared 
to receive mr. milosevic in the hague at any time. but that is unlikely. 
a key milosevic general, ratko mladic, accused of genocide in bosnia 
five years ago, lives openly in belgrade. and another indicted war 
criminal, radovan karadzic, also still free. yugoslavia's new leader 
refuses to turn milosevic or the others over. it's extremely important 
for the future of yugoslavia that they be held accountable and that 
justice be done. but justice takes time. tonight, the president is 
talking to european leaders about ways to lift economic sanctions 
on yugoslavia as early as monday as a strong show of support for the 
new government. andrea mitchell, nbc news, at the state department.