More than 150 police officers died in the line of duty in 2000, an 
increase of 11 percent from the year before, police organizations 
said Thursday. The National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund 
and the Concerns of Police Survivors said 151 police officers have 
been killed so far in 2000, up from 134 in 1999, the lowest level 
since 1965. The annual average in the 1990s was 153, compared to 187 
during the 1980s and 222 during the 1970s. The most recent officer 
killed was Aubrey Hawkins, 29, of Irving, Texas, shot while investigating 
a Christmas Eve holdup at a sporting goods store. Seven convicts who 
escaped a Texas prison are wanted in the shooting. Texas had the most 
police officers killed in 2000 with 14 dead, followed by California 
with 11 and Georgia and Tennessee with 10 each. The number of officers 
shot to death rose from 45 last year to 51 so far this year. Except 
for 1999, when there were more deaths from automobile accidents than 
shootings, firearms have been the leading cause of death for law enforcement 
officers every year since 1792, Craig W. Floyd, chairman of the memorial 
fund, said in an interview. However, the widespread use of bulletproof 
vests has greatly reduced the number of shooting deaths during the 
last 25 years, he said. This year 47 officers died in automobile accidents, 
a number that has remained relatively stable over the last four years. 
``Officers are finding themselves in dangerous situations driving 
at high rates of speed and maybe don't have the level of training 
to navigate the roadway safely under those circumstances,'' Floyd 
said. ``They're paying the price with their lives.'' Noting that 20 
officers died after being struck by cars while outside their cruisers, 
Floyd said drivers need to be more cautious when they see police stopped 
by the side of a road. Accidental deaths have been on the rise, Floyd 
said. ``When you're a law enforcement officer any situation can be 
potentially life threatening,'' he said. Lt. James R. Haddock, of 
Kissimmee, Fla., died after the horse he was riding fell and crushed 
him as he acted as an escort for a trail ride. Lt. John Galvin, of 
Wichita, Kan., died of burns after 1,500 pounds of old fireworks he 
was helping to dispose of exploded. Also in 2000, eight officers died 
in motorcycle accidents, seven were killed in aircraft accidents, 
six died from job-related illness, three drowned, three died in falls, 
two were stabbed, one was beaten to death and one died after falling 
from a bicycle during a training exercise. ___ On the Net: National 
Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund: http://www.nleomf.com Concerns 
of Police Survivors: http://www.nationalcops.org