Peru's former armed forces commander, a close associate of fugitive 
ex-spy chief Vladimiro Montesinos, has been arrested near the border 
with Ecuador, police said. Gen. Jose Villanueva Ruesta, who resigned 
in October, was arrested Friday in the coastal city of Tumbes, 620 
miles northwest of the capital, Lima. He is the highest-profile figure 
to be detained amid criminal investigations surrounding Montesinos 
and his reputed web of influence peddling, illicit arms dealing and 
human rights abuses. News reports said Villanueva was in a hotel with 
his wife and bodyguards when he was arrested. He reportedly put up 
no resistance. Hours earlier, Villanueva had told local television 
stations that he was not trying to leave the country, but was merely 
on a family vacation. After those interviews appeared, a police communique 
broadcast on television and radio said a judicial order had been put 
out for Villanueva's house arrest to prevent him from fleeing the 
country. It was unclear whether authorities had been alerted to Villanueva's 
whereabouts by the TV interviews. It also wasn't clear what charges, 
if any, had been brought against Villanueva. The general has been 
accused by Montesinos' former security guards of helping to hide the 
spy chief before his escape from the country Oct. 29. Villanueva, 
a former academy classmate of Montesinos, also has been accused of 
amassing property and wealth beyond the means of his military salary. 
Villanueva has consistently denied any illicit involvement with Montesinos, 
who is wanted on illegal arms dealing charges, laundering drug profits, 
influence peddling and directing death squads. But in October, Villanueva 
and two other military commanders resigned after rumors they might 
be plotting a coup to restore the ousted spy chief. For a decade, 
Montesinos was the top adviser to now-ousted President Alberto Fujimori. 
Fujimori gave Montesinos unofficial control of the military, and many 
here considered Montesinos the most powerful man in Peru. But in September, 
Peru was thrown into turmoil with the release of a video showing Montesinos 
apparently bribing a congressman to support Fujimori. After weeks 
of uproar over the scandal, Fujimori fled to Japan and Congress deemed 
him unfit to rule. Montesinos also fled the country. State attorney 
Jose Ugaz, who was appointed to investigate Montesinos and his accomplices, 
has said there is sufficient evidence to start criminal investigations 
against more than 200 members of the military, government and business 
sector. Congress recently approved anti-corruption legislation giving 
prosecutors power to detain those suspected of corruption for up to 
15 days without filing charges. The legislation was designed to prevent 
suspects from leaving the country, but it also allows prosecutors 
to make plea bargain deals in exchange for testimony and evidence.