Hemmed in by 2,000-foot rock massifs, this village seems, by measure 
of its beauty and mystery, altogether more like a place to stay in 
than to leave. Yet Al-Ribat's villagers, driven by poverty, have migrated 
for centuries _ in recent decades, mostly northward, out of Yemen 
and across the vast desert known as the Empty Quarter that forms a 
barrier between here and Saudi Arabia. Historically, few places anywhere 
in the Arabian Peninsula have been less exposed to outside influences, 
except for the experiences _ rarely liberalizing _ of those who have 
migrated to Saudi Arabia and returned. Al-Ribat, in consequence, remains 
an archetype of the deeply conservative, devoutly Islamic and, toward 
outsiders, insistently wary community that typifies much that is unchanging 
in remoter parts of the Arab world. One migrant, in 1931, was a baggage 
carrier bound for Jiddah, the Saudi Arabian port city that is a gateway 
to Mecca, Islam's holiest place. His name was Muhammad bin Laden. 
In time, he and his brothers founded a construction company, now known 
as the Bin Laden Group, which prospered by building roads and palaces 
under the patronage of the Saudi royal family, and made the bin Ladens 
a fortune estimated at billions of dollars. But what has drawn attention 
to Al-Ribat is not Muhammad bin Laden, who died in the 1960s, so much 
as Osama, the 17th of his 51 children. Osama bin Laden, in recent 
years, has been the United States' most wanted terrorism suspect, 
with a $5 million reward on his head for his alleged role in the August 
1998 truck bombings of two U.S. embassies in East Africa that killed 
more than 200 people, as well as a string of other terrorist attacks. 
In the indictment drawn up by the FBI against 15 men accused in the 
embassy bombings, bin Laden is listed first, as leader of ``an international 
terrorist group,'' Al Qaeda, that has been largely financed out of 
bin Laden's inheritance from his father, estimated at about $300 million. 
Most recently, the FBI has named bin Laden as a prime suspect in the 
suicide bombing of the U.S. destroyer Cole, which was attacked in 
Aden harbor, 350 miles by road southwest of here, on Oct. 12, with 
the loss of 17 sailors' lives. In Al-Ribat, there are no direct connections, 
at least none that are known, to the attacks mounted by bin Laden, 
who has taken sanctuary since 1996 in Afghanistan. He was born in 
Jiddah, to a Syrian mother, in 1957, and educated through university 
level, in civil engineering, in Saudi Arabia. But bin Laden has frequently 
cited his Yemeni ties, speaking often of his hope of leaving Afghanistan 
and seeking sanctuary somewhere in the ``high mountains and deserts'' 
of Yemen, where, he has said, he could breathe ``fresh air.'' This, 
and the restraints that Saudi Arabia has placed on any reporters attempting 
to delve into Osama bin Laden's roots, has made Al-Ribat an obvious 
destination for anybody seeking to learn more about one of the FBI's 
most wanted men. But with at least three hours of driving to the closest 
strip of paved road, the village is as remote as any in Yemen, and 
it guards its privacy with care _ much like Yemeni authorities who, 
since the Cole bombing, have insistently discouraged efforts to probe 
the domestic links of all suspects in the attack. In October, a reporter 
trying to reach Al-Ribat was halted 50 miles north of the village 
by agents of Yemen's secret police. Later, they ordered villagers 
elsewhere in this part of Hadhramaut province, in eastern Yemen, not 
to discuss bin Laden or the bombing. But by December, with official 
surveillance of reporters easing, a visit to Al-Ribat became possible. 
When Britain was the ruling colonial power in this region of the Arabian 
Peninsula, up to 1967, this part of Hadhramaut was a remote hinterland, 
reachable only by donkey or camel. The village lies at the extreme 
southern end of Wadi Doan, a dried-up river valley bordered by rocky 
mountains that narrows and deepens until it reaches a cul-de-sac at 
Al-Ribat. Along dusty alleyways that run between mud-brick homes, 
villagers willing to speak of bin Laden refer affectionately to ``Osama,'' 
smiling proudly. Ali Ahmed Bagader, a bright-eyed, keen-witted 8-year-old 
studying at the Bin Laden Madrassah, or Islamic school, met visitors 
as they pulled up in the dusty square near the village's main mosque. 
Along with Salim Saeed al-Gerin, a 26-year-old baggage carrier, Ali 
offered a guided tour of the village's bin Laden sites. ``A lot of 
Yemenis love him,'' he said during a pause at the madrassah, which 
operates in a wing of a home belonging to Abdullah bin Laden, Osama's 
uncle and one of the three brothers who founded the construction company. 
Holding a boxed copy of the Koran, Ali said villagers had come to 
know Osama bin Laden mainly through television, piped into the village 
via satellite dishes. ``We love him because he's a mujahid,'' he said, 
using the Arabic term for a holy warrior. ``We know that he fights 
for his faith, and for his country, that he has God's protection, 
and that he lives in Afghanistan.'' The only remaining member of the 
bin Laden family living in the village is Khaled al-Omeri, a 30-year-old 
second cousin of Osama, who runs a small grocery store, having failed 
to secure a niche in Saudi Arabia as an automobile mechanic. He, his 
wife and five children share a three-room apartment in a large, ramshackle 
home that belongs to Abdullah bin Laden, his grandfather. The home, 
with rotting wooden shutters and rain-stained walls, is known among 
villagers as the bin Laden house, and the dirt track that runs past 
it, on the edge of the dried-up riverbed running through the village, 
is called Bin Laden Street. Nearby is a one-room office for the Bin 
Laden Group, overseeing a project to bring piped water into Al-Ribat; 
the project is the bin Laden family's gift to their ancestral home. 
But like many villagers, Al-Omeri judged it wiser to keep his views 
of Osama bin Laden to himself. ``This is my jihad,'' he said, motioning 
to his small son, as he sat on the steps outside his store. As for 
bin Laden, Al-Omeri smiled. ``On that matter, I'd just as soon keep 
my peace,'' he said. Al-Ribat, with a population of about 7,000, is 
dotted with mosques and it still lives mainly from porterage _ the 
trade of Osama bin Laden's father when he left here by donkey 70 years 
ago. But for nearly 3,000 years, Hadhramaut has been renowned for 
its extraordinary agglomerations of 10- and 12-story mud-brick buildings, 
clustered together for defensive purposes behind high mud walls. Al-Ribat, 
typical of such villages, has traditionally combined its porterage 
business with a specialization in construction, which probably explains 
the transition that Muhammed bin Laden made, once established in Saudi 
Arabia, from porterage to building. When Gerin, the porter who helped 
with the visitors' tour, was asked what made the village the center 
of construction in Wadi Doan, he offered an incredulous response that 
said much about the persistence of all things in this remote hinterland. 
``Why are we builders?'' Gerin said, leaning on a cane. ``Well, that's 
the way it is, and always has been, and always will be, until Judgment 
Day.'' Along with this steadfastness come heavy doses of faith. Some 
of this was echoed in the pamphlets stuck to Al-Ribat's walls by an 
Islamic summer school, with question-and-answer strictures that reflected 
a deeply conservative attitude. One of these, on Bin Laden Street, 
posed the question ``Is it all right to shake hands with a foreign 
woman?'' and offered the answer ``It is forbidden to shake hands with 
any women you can marry'' _ meaning any woman outside a man's own 
home. But at least one of the village's Muslim clerics, who doubles 
as headmaster of the madrassah in the bin Laden house, was willing 
to speak out against intolerant forms of Islam, including bin Laden's. 
``What do I think of Osama's `holy war against Crusaders and Jews?''' 
he said. ``Well, I'll tell you: I am against it, because it harms 
Yemen's reputation more than it harms America. What I say is, if Osama 
wants to harm Americans, let him do it in America, not here in Yemen. 
From my point of view, Osama is a Saudi Arabian, not a Yemeni, and 
he and his beliefs do not belong here.''