Never mind about Carmen Sandiego and Waldo. Where in the world is 
Vladimiro Montesinos? Since disappearing late in October, Montesinos, 
former chief of Peru's intelligence network, has become the most hunted 
man in Latin America. But in spite of a tantalizing trail of clues 
and reports of stopovers and sightings in places ranging from the 
Galapagos Islands to Caracas, he has managed _ with the help of fake 
passports and disguises _ to elude all of his would-be captors. Montesinos 
is the key figure in the scandal that last month toppled President 
Alberto Fujimori of Peru, who is now in self-imposed exile in Japan. 
Peruvian investigators accuse Montesinos, 56, of corruption, election 
fraud, extortion, drug trafficking, money laundering, bribery and 
rights abuses. They have pledges from countries in the region that 
he will be extradited to Peru if caught. The Peruvian crisis erupted 
in September with the broadcast of a videotape that showed Montesinos, 
who had spent a decade as the president's most powerful adviser, apparently 
paying a $15,000 bribe to a member of Congress. Montesinos sought 
asylum in Panama, but returned semi-clandestinely to Peru less than 
a month later. His return set off a widely publicized manhunt, led 
by Fujimori himself, that government critics dismissed as a farce. 
Three of Montesinos' former bodyguards, who parted ways with him and 
ended up back in Peru, have told congressional investigators there 
that they left Peru with Montesinos on Oct. 29 aboard a yacht called 
the Karisma. They said the vessel sailed to Puerto Villamil, Ecuador, 
on the island of Isabela in the Galapagos, where a group of Montesinos 
associates took refuge at a secluded beachfront hotel called the Ballena 
Azul, or Blue Whale. The hotel's proprietor, Dora Gruber, recalled 
that a woman _ believed to be Montesinos' aide Aurora Guzman _ made 
the reservation for the group and was reluctant to discuss Montesinos 
when a report about him appeared on television. Hotel owners and staff 
members were told that a group of journalists would be coming from 
Peru. But the supposed journalists ``hardly left their cabanas, even 
for meals,'' Gruber said, ``and if Montesinos himself were here, he 
never showed his face,'' apparently staying aboard the yacht until 
arrangements to move on were set. The bodyguards have told Peruvian 
investigators that Montesinos eventually sailed from Isabela to Cocos 
Island, a Costa Rican possession in the Pacific. But officials at 
the airport in Puerto Villamil say that a man roughly matching Montesinos' 
description left their island aboard a chartered plane in mid-November. 
The Costa Rican government, in turn, maintains that Montesinos entered 
its territory on Nov. 21, using a Venezuelan passport issued in the 
name of Manuel Antonio Rodriguez Perez. Two days later, their records 
show, a man using the same passport boarded a private flight bound 
for Aruba, a Dutch possession in the Caribbean just off Venezuela. 
By this point, Montesinos, who is tall, hawk-nosed, balding, fair-skinned 
and wears glasses, is said to have grown a beard. And his appearance 
may have been altered further after he arrived in Venezuela, which 
has a flourishing plastic surgery industry. Venezuela's foreign minister, 
Jose Vicente Rangel, at first dismissed reports that Montesinos was 
in the country, saying they were based on ``speculation and false 
rumor.'' Just before Christmas, Venezuelan security officials produced 
a 27-year-old Peruvian engineer named Manuel Alexander Rodriguez Perez 
who they said was the cause of the muddle. ``There has been a mistake 
in trying to confuse Mr. Alexander with Vladimiro,'' said Edgar Rodriguez, 
deputy director of Venezuelan state security, some of whose members 
have in the past had close relationships with Montesinos. ``This man 
could never be Vladimiro Montesinos,'' he said of the young engineer, 
brown-skinned and chubby, who has now returned to Peru and dropped 
out of sight. But the director of the Instituto Diagnostico, a private 
clinic in Caracas, said last week that a man named Manuel Rodriguez 
Perez underwent surgery on his nose and eyelids on Dec. 13. The doctor 
who performed the operation is said to have taken photographs of his 
patient, but he has not been located because he left on what is described 
as a long vacation. Now authorities in all the countries involved 
in the manhunt say they are baffled as to Montesinos' whereabouts. 
There have been reports that he never left Peru and remains in hiding 
there; reports that he flew secretly to Paraguay; theories that he 
may have headed for Morocco; even talk that he has made his way to 
Europe to be closer to an estimated $800 million stashed in secret 
bank accounts there. But no one can be sure, which only adds to the 
legend. ``Up until some time ago, it was thought he was in Venezuela,'' 
Peru's prime minister, Javier Perez de Cuellar, said at a news conference 
in Lima on Tuesday. ``Now we have no evidence to say that he is still 
in Venezuela,'' he said. ``Maybe he is, maybe he isn't. That's all 
I can say.''