New charges of robbery have been filed against two of the seven convicts 
who escaped together earlier this month from a Texas prison, and officials 
have posted a $100,000 reward for their capture. Since their Dec. 
13 escape, when the seven fugitives loaded up with an arsenal of prison 
guards' weapons, they are suspected of robbing a store near Houston 
and killing a police officer during a robbery near Dallas on Christmas 
Eve. Five of the fugitives were believed to have been spotted Thursday 
at a fast-food restaurant near Dallas, but most of the leads received 
on the men's whereabouts have gone nowhere, law enforcement officials 
said. ``We hope the high reward money will entice those people who 
have been assisting them in traveling and hiding,'' prison spokesman 
Larry Todd said Saturday. ``We believe these are the same people who 
helped them make good on the escape.'' The ringleader is believed 
to be George Rivas, an armed robber who prosecutors have called ``one 
of the most dangerous men in Texas.'' On Friday, aggravated robbery 
charges were filed against Rivas and Donald Keith Newbury, 38, in 
connection with the Dec. 15 robbery of a Radio Shack in Pearland, 
a Houston suburb. Victims said the men tied up store employees and 
customers and then looted the store and the victims' pockets. The 
Pearland robbery was similar to the Christmas Eve heist in Irving, 
where two dozen employees were tied up in the back of an Oshman's 
sporting goods store. Irving Police Officer Aubrey Hawkins was killed 
when he approached the robbers behind the store. He was buried Thursday. 
The Irving police department is offering the $100,000 reward for information 
leading to the arrest and indictment of those responsible for the 
officer's slaying. Rivas, 30, was involved in more than a dozen robberies 
in Texas, New Mexico and Arizona during 1987-94. He was finally caught 
after a three-hour standoff in El Paso and was sentenced to 99 years 
for aggravated kidnapping and burglary. Texas authorities won't discuss 
any leads they are pursuing or what security measures they are taking 
for the fugitives' victims and prosecutors. Some relatives are clearly 
frightened. A couple who years ago adopted one member of the group, 
23-year-old Randy Halprin, have fled the state with their two preteen 
children, afraid that he might try to return to their home in Dalworthington 
Gardens. Halprin was serving 30 years for injury to a child. Relatives 
of another of the fugitives, Patrick Henry Murphy Jr., went on television 
in Dallas on Thursday night, pleading for him to surrender. Murphy 
was serving 50 years for aggravated sexual assault with a deadly weapon 
and burglary in Dallas. ``Patrick, wherever you are, just please stop 
this violence and turn yourself in,'' said a tearful Kristina Rogers, 
Murphy's younger half-sister. ``You know you weren't raised to do 
this. Just stop the pain that the family is going through.'' The other 
escapees are Michael Rodriguez, 38, serving a life sentence for capital 
murder in San Antonio; Larry Harper, 37, serving 50 years for aggravated 
sexual assault in El Paso; Donald Newbury, 38, serving 99 years for 
aggravated robbery; and Joseph Garcia, 29, serving 50 years for murder 
in San Antonio. The subsequent manhunt has frustrated law officers 
from the several federal, state and local agencies involved. ``We've 
had spottings all over the state,'' Todd said. ``The leads did not 
prove fruitful.'' Employees at a fast-food restaurant in the Dallas 
suburb of The Colony said five of the fugitives were there on Thursday 
and left in a dark sports utility vehicle, said police dispatcher 
Gloria Carver. All seven fugitives were serving sentences ranging 
from 30 years to life and worked together in the maintenance department 
at the Connally Unit in Kenedy, a maximum-security state prison 60 
miles southeast of San Antonio. They allegedly made their escape by 
posing as prison workers, tying up prison employees, stealing their 
clothes and escaping with 14 pistols, a loaded shotgun, a loaded rifle 
and 238 rounds of ammunition. They also left a note warning: ``You 
haven't heard the last of us.''