Police here blocked a top associate of fugitive ex-spy chief Vladimiro 
Montesinos from boarding a plane to Miami, Peru's justice minister 
said. Retired Gen. Julio Salazar was detained Tuesday in Lima's Jorge 
Chavez International Airport before getting onto a commercial flight, 
Justice Minister Diego Garcia Sayan said. ``He apparently tried to 
flee the country,'' Garcia Sayan told reporters. ``We hope this is 
not a further signal that all those who are under investigation follow 
a similar route.'' Garcia Sayan said Salazar had been placed under 
house arrest, but a communique from the Justice Ministry broadcast 
later over the radio corrected the statement, saying the retired general 
had merely been prevented from leaving Peru. Salazar, a one-time Peruvian 
defense minister, officially headed the now-defunct National Intelligence 
Service for much of the 1990s. But he took orders from the agency's 
de facto chief, Montesinos, who is wanted in Peru on charges from 
money laundering and influence peddling to allegations that he directed 
death squads. Congressman David Waisman, head of a congressional commission 
investigating Montesinos' reputed web of corruption, said Salazar 
would likely face criminal charges stemming from his failure to justify 
unexplained wealth during testimony before the commission. He did 
not elaborate. For a decade, Montesinos was the top adviser to now-ousted 
President Alberto Fujimori. Fujimori gave Montesinos unofficial control 
of the military, and many here considered Montesinos the most powerful 
man in Peru. But in September, Peru was thrown into turmoil with the 
release of a video showing Montesinos apparently bribing a congressman 
to support Fujimori. After weeks of uproar over the scandal, Fujimori 
fled to Japan and Congress deemed him unfit to rule. Montesinos also 
fled the country. Authorities say another former defense minister, 
retired Gen. Victor Malca, fled the country after the congressional 
commission discovered he had some $14 million in bank accounts in 
Peru and in the Cayman Islands. And on Friday, retired Gen. Jose Villanueva 
Ruesta, the former armed forces commander, was placed under house 
arrest after he was detained near the border with Ecuador. He has 
denied any illicit involvement with Montesinos.