now, for the capital in washington. this was day one for the new 107th 
congress. there are many firsts in the new group of lawmakers -- not 
the least of whom, a first lady who happens to be a senator. for that, 
we're joined tonight by nbc's lisa myers. lisa? brian, this day, historic 
on many counts -- the most women ever in both the house and senate, 
the most evenly divided congress in history. some predict the new 
dynamic will force republicans and democrats to finally work together. 
others see still more gridlock. the star of the day -- the new junior 
senator from new york. congratulations, i'm so proud of you. also 
in the spotlight, missouri's jean carnahan. her husband, former governor 
mel carnahan, became the only dead man ever elected to the senate 
after being killed in a plane crash. today, she takes his seat. i 
have just gone through a very bittersweet moment in the senate chamber. 
another first, a senate evenly divided -- 50 republicans, 50 democrats, 
the tie broken by the vice president. that means, as long as al gore 
is vice president, democrats are in charge. the majority leader, senator 
daschle, is recognized. once dick cheney is inaugurated on january 
20th, republicans are back in control -- barely. in the house, republicans 
also have a razor-thin margin, and today, reach out to democrats. 
it's only in washington where many still have a lingering animosity 
for the political parties. my friends, we need to get over it. how 
will all this division affect the nation's problems? the practical 
impact of this 50/50 is, it's more deadlock, more gridlock on the 
hill, more difficulty in getting solutions through the institution 
on big issues. both parties see a good chance of compromise on education 
reform and an hmo patients' bill of rights, and almost no chance of 
a deal on highly charged issues like privatization of social security. 
as for tax cuts, today the house's top democrat signals new flexibility. 
we realize that because of the enlarged forecast of the surplus and 
the slowdown in the economy, that we have got to look at revising 
perhaps the kinds of amounts that we were looking at before. now, 
privately, key players say families can pretty much count on a cut 
in estate taxes and a tax cut for married couples, maybe even a modest 
across-the-board reduction in tax rates, but nothing close to the 
trillion-dollar tax cut bush wants. brian? lisa myers inside capitol 
for us tonight, thanks.