good evening. it took the angry voices of hundreds of thousands of 
people protesting for days, but tonight slobodan milosevic finally 
admitted he is no longer the president of yugoslavia, and he said 
he had just received at information. it followed a day of intense 
behind-the-scenes negotiation to decide his future and the future 
of the country. for now, it seems the new regime of president kostunica 
is not insisting milosevic leave the country. abc's bob woodruff is 
in belgrade tonight. in a surprise live speech tonight, slobodan milosevic 
conceded his loss and congratulated his oppone. i, myself, am relieved 
by the enormous responsibility i have borne for a whole decade. i 
plan to rest a bit and spend time with my family. after that, to help 
my party gain force and contribute to the future of the country. on 
the streets on the second day of the revolution, the people of yugoslavia 
are savoring their victory, swept up by the sudden death of their 
dictatorship. belgrade has become one big party. while the people 
celebrated, slobodan milosevic reappeared in beg grade in a videotaped 
meeting. russia's foreign minister had come to tell him that the russians 
no longer are behind him and he should accept defeat. sources say 
milosevic was defiant, promising to stay in yugoslavia and in politics. 
the people here say, their new president, vojislav kostunica, is quickly 
becoming a populist leader. today he, too, met with russia's foreign 
minister, who carried the russian's president endorsement. and tonight 
he went on national television to take direct questions from the viewers 
-- something milosevic never dared to do. disdain for milosevic seems 
to be growing. yesterday's uprising was targeted mostly at him. the 
crowds focused much of their anger on anything associated with milosevic. 
this is the local party headquarters of milosevic's wife. as you can 
see, every window is broken and the building is trashed. the mob also 
singled out and destroyed the store owned by milosevic's son. they 
burned the tv station that carried milosevic's words and beat the 
station's director. but tonight, the people seem to be turning away 
from anger, praying instead for a better future. a future and a country 
without slobodan milosevic. bob woodruff, belgrade.