pentagon sources tell cnn the commander of the "uss cole" failed to 
implement basic measures to protect his crew. 17 sailors were killed 
when the warship was bombed in a terrorist attack. jamie m intyre 
has details. cnn has learned that the crew of the "uss cole" was not 
briefed on the seriousness of the threat in yemen, nor warned to be 
on guard for possible terrorist attack the day the warship was bombed. 
when the "uss cole" entered the port of aden october it was operating 
under "threat condition bravo," an alert level that warns of "an increased 
and more predictable threat of terrorist activity." pentagon sources 
say almost half of 62 security measures that were intended to protect 
the "uss cole" from terrorist attack were not carried out. while many 
were not required because the "cole" was refueling in the harbor, 
not at a pier, others were judged to be significant lapses, according 
to sources. for instance, the ship protection plan filed by the "cole's" 
commanding officer of terrorism and warned to be suspicious and inquisitive 
of strangers. another provision specifically warned that small boats 
require special concern because they can serve as an ideal platform 
for terrorists. but lippold failed to ensure the those briefings were 
given according to pentagon sources. the crew was also supposed to 
identify and inspect all work boats, keep unauthorized craft away 
from the ship, and prepare fire hoses to repel borders. those precautions 
were not taken either, sources say. the 40-foot hole in the side of 
the "uss cole" has now been patched, and the warship is in mississippi 
for repairs that will cost $ 240 million and take a year to complete. 
senior navy officials are still debating the fate of commander lippold, 
who along with several subordinate officers, could be subject to career-ending 
discipline, if it's judged the security lapses left the billion-dollar 
destroyer more vulnerable to attack. jamie m intyre, cnn, the pentagon.