nbc news "in depth" tonight. the latest on the search for seven fugitives 
who escaped from a texas prison three weeks ago and are accused of 
killing a police officer while stealing guns from a sporting goods 
store after their escape. all seven were convicted of serious crimes. 
their sentences ranging from 30 years to life, when they broke out 
december 13th. we begin "in depth" tonight a new national effort to 
find these armed and very dangerous men. here's nbc's shelly smith. 
tonight, the manhunt for the texas seven escapees goes nationwide, 
as the fbi files federal charges against the convicts who busted out 
of a maximum security prison last month. now every federal agency 
in the nation can begin looking for them. the latest on the escapees 
is that they are possibly driving a dark red minivan. in north texas, 
police officers prepare for the worst. inside the state command center, 
phones are buzzing with hundreds of tips from across the nation. mug 
shots of the gang e-mailed to neighboring states, police there asked 
for help. our biggest prayer right now is that this can be ended without 
bloodshed. the intensity of the search, propelled by shocking news 
of an autopsy report showing officer aubrey hawkins was shot 11 times, 
police say, by the gang of seven during a christmas eve robbery at 
this sporting goods store in a dallas suburb. hawkins took six hits 
to the head. police say the escapees then ran over him as they made 
off with weapons and cash. while many criminals may say, "i'm never 
going to be taken alive," when it really gets down to it, not a lot 
of them live up to that commitment. but the ominous note left behind 
after their daring prison escape still haunts investigators. in it, 
the convicts warned we haven't heard the last of them yet. the note 
tells me these guys had a plan, that there was something on their 
minds beyond escaping from prison. after three weeks, still no positive 
sighting. why has it taken so long to find them? police believe they 
are hiding out with the same people who helped them escape. that assistance 
they are getting from the free world is a big obstacle to us. another 
obstacle, these dated mug shots, which in some cases are nearly ten 
years old. this week, police posted new photos on the state's website. 
police believe the ringleader of the group is 30-year-old george rivas 
of el paso, described as one of the most dangerous men in texas -- 
so fascinated with guns, he named his dogs ruger and beretta, two 
popular gun manufacturers. publicly, police say they hope this will 
end peacefully. privately, they worry rivas' gang has stolen more 
than 40 weapons, thousands of rounds of ammo, and they've already 
proven they're not afraid to shoot. shellee smith, nbc news, dallas. 
now that the texas manhunt has gone national, what do the experts 
say about the chances of catching the bad guys? we continue "in depth" 
with nbc's pete williams. some officials in texas cite a familiar 
maxim in law enforcement -- if they don't catch a prisoner within 
three hours or three miles of an escape, they're in for a long manhunt. 
but how long? it took florida state police just 11 days to capture 
five of six inmates who staged a stunning escape five years ago by 
digging a tunnel under a prison chapel. even so, the last of them, 
who did better planning, getting outside help for his getaway, wasn't 
found for two more years, in mexico. but a former fbi profiler says 
that while the texas prison break seems well-planned, police have 
something going for them. he says groups of escaped prisoners eventually 
crack under the pressure of a sustained manhunt. they're restless, 
they're bored with the norm. they seek excitement. they don't hole 
up well. they get bored. there's going to be infighting within the 
group, and that will create a schism and a fracture within the group, 
and that's when this thing is going to unravel and come apart. no 
national figures manhunt lasts. but the ultimate capture numbers for 
high-profile federal fugitives are impressive -- for the u.s. marshal's 
service, about 92% of those on its 15 most wanted fugitives list. 
the fbi has tracked down about 94% of those on its ten most wanted 
list. average time on the fbi's list, 316 days. the fbi says massive 
publicity can be a huge help putting more pressure on fugitives, making 
it harder for them to hide. and it can also generate valuable leads. 
we look at it as if we can interview thousands of people at one time 
and develop information regarding the whereabouts of these fugitives. 
just the kind of pressure that texas authorities hope tonight will 
bring them a break, and soon. pete williams, nbc news, washington.