tonight, a political career tragically interrupted and a wife who 
picks up the torch. it's been less than three months since the terrible 
accident that killed missouri's governor mel carnahan. now, his widow 
jean, who never had her own heart set on a career in politics, suddenly 
finds herself in his place -- in the u.s. senate. nbc's lisa myers 
sat down today with senator jean carnahan for her first extended interview 
since her emotional swearing-in. for missouri's new senator, jean 
carnahan, the last two days have been a journey of a thousand emotions, 
as she lives out her husband's dream. there were tears that i forced 
back at one point, after i signed the book. that officially made me 
a member of the senate. i thought a lot about him. and i felt very 
much like he was there. carnahan lost her husband of 45 years, mel, 
and their son, randy, in a plane crash in october. missouri voters 
elected her husband anyway, after she said she'd accept an appointment 
to his seat. for her swearing-in -- flanked by two children -- she 
wore a small torch symbolizing a favorite saying by her husband. he 
used to say that when he walked out of the house. he'd turn to us 
and say to the kids, "now don't let the fire go out." so far, carnahan, 
is surprising senate insiders with her poise, savvy and knowledge 
of issues. she might be one of the newest, but we think she's going 
to be one of the best! she is direct and unpretentious already frustrated 
by the chronic tardiness of senators, which, she says, shows a lack 
of regard for the time of others. carnahan promises to seek a sensible 
center. her first big test -- the controversial nomination of the 
man her dead husband defeated -- former senator john ashcroft -- to 
be attorney general. going in, you're totally neutral on the ashcroft 
nomination? i want to hear what he has to say on questions that i 
have, and questions others have expressed that women and minorities 
have expressed. let's give him his day. for her, she says each day 
is just about keeping going and hoping for the best. in all the grief, 
is there any joy or sense of accomplishment? i felt that yesterday. 
i felt like i was doing what i should do. i'm sort of shifting gears, 
in a way. and, yet, i know that mel's memory will always be there. 
my son's memory will always be there. shifting gears in that a 67-year-old 
woman who says her only previous office was a dining room table now 
believes she just might be able to do this job and do it well. lisa 
myers, nbc news, the capitol.