Two members of gang of fugitives accused of killing a police officer 
after they escaped from prison were spotted at a bank in San Marcos, 
local police said Friday. State investigators, however, said the sighting 
was unconfirmed. San Marcos Police Chief Stephen Griffith said witnesses 
twice identified two of the fugitives as being at the bank in his 
city, 35 miles northeast of San Antonio. ``It is our belief at this 
point and time, based on witness identification of two sets of photos, 
that we have an accurate sighting,'' he said. ``We believe there was 
a bank casing going on.'' But Texas Department of Criminal Justice 
spokesman Larry Todd wouldn't confirm the sighting. ``We've had simultaneous 
sightings in San Marcos, Texas, Durango, Colorado, a small town in 
southern Oklahoma and someplace in Louisiana,'' Todd told reporters 
in Austin. Police were analyzing security camera footage and possible 
fingerprints, Griffith said. Officers are on high alert, he said, 
and SWAT teams were on standby. The seven convicts _ two killers, 
two armed robbers, a child abuser, a serial rapist and a burglar _ 
broke out from the state prison at Kenedy on Dec. 13 by stealing clothing 
from staff members and bluffing their way to the rear gate, authorities 
said. The group is accused of pulling off a Christmas Eve holdup at 
a sporting goods store in Irving in which a police officer was slain. 
Officer Aubrey Hawkins was shot 11 times _ six times in the head _ 
and was also run over by a vehicle. Todd would not say if security 
cameras at the San Marcos bank showed anything suspicious. ``We are 
trying not to panic the public, but certainly to advise them of the 
potential danger,'' he said. More than 1,200 leads have been received 
since the escape, and each lead must be investigated, Todd said. The 
Irving Police Department released updated sketches Friday to reflect 
the fugitives' appearances at the time of the escape. Police said 
they had reason to believe two of the suspects were injured. Irving 
Police spokesman David Tull said tests of blood found in the car used 
in the gang's escape from the sporting goods store found blood from 
three sources, including the slain officer.