we're going to begin with the texas seven. there is no question that 
with seven violent convicts still on the loose and the texas authorities 
very much on edge, this enormous manhunt ising an effect on the state's 
morale. texas hasn't seen a gang like this since the and three weeks 
after they escaped from prison, the seven men are much, much better 
armed. from texas tonight, abc's mike von fremd. police said today 
they found blood inside the car the escapes used after they robbed 
a sporting goods store. now we have very good reason to believe two 
of the suspects possibly were injured at some point. police are not 
sure how serious the injuries are, or if they are the result of returned 
fire from officer aubrey hawkins, who was brutally gunned down by 
the escapees. his weapon was not recovered. our belief was that the 
suspects took that weapon with them when they left. officials in texas 
released these updated sketches of the seven based on new eyewitness 
information. one example, in the sketches, escapee larry harper now 
has an infection on his lip. i do not know if it's a cold sore or 
what, but it's rather vivid. with the massive effort to circulate 
their pictures, there have been reported sightings in palm beach florida, 
durango, colorado and multiple sightings in texas. at this bank in 
san marcos, texas, just south of austin, two witnesses thought they 
saw the connally seven casing a bank yesterday. and today on the streets 
people say they are frightened. we're taking precautions. we're locking 
our doors. when people leave our house at night, we walk them to their 
cars. yeah, we're all pretty scared. but after reviewing the bank 
surveillance tape, investigators today say they do not believe the 
gang was in san marcos. their whereabouts is still a mystery tonight. 
for the police, their greatest fear is that this will end in a bloodshed. 
we are obvious targets, driving with an arsenal of weapons and $80,000 
in cash, police say it will take patience to catch this group. fbi, 
they have all that they need to be able to stay out for a long time. 
that's the reason law enforcement has such a difficult task. you have 
got to rely also on that funny feeling you get on the back of your 
neck. and if you get that, you back off a little bit. police across 
the lone star state have decided that now is not the time to take 
any chances. mike von fremd, abc news, dallas. little earlier we talked 
to larry todd, the public information officer for the texas department 
of criminal justice. mr. todd, are there convicts have been on the 
run for longer than these men, but these men are clearly good. would 
you agree? they're cunning, good, heavily armed and they are frightening 
people in the southwest. are you convinced they have not left texas? 
we think that they're in texas. we think that they've split up and 
then the groups come back together. but very frankly, our leads are 
very, very limited. what we need are good, solid leads. we need license 
plate numbers and better descriptions. these men have changed their 
appearance. they have grown facial hair or possibly they altered their 
appearance through a disguise. several people in texas told me in 
general the public is not pan oiked but that the law enforcement authorities 
are, quote, quite afraid. yes, they are afraid. these men are very 
heavily armed and they've proven that they don't mind using those 
weps. and we don't know what their plans are, so certainly law enforcement 
is extremely cautious. we just hope it ends without bloodshed. we 
think the men might move and make a move this weekend, so we're very 
cautious. again, we're very prayerful. why do you think they might 
make a move this weekend? we've got good weather. they've been laying 
low for quite some time. they've been very patient so far but how 
far can patience go? many thanks for your time. thanks, sir.