nbc news "in depth" tonight. the continuing search for seven, armed 
and very dangerous fugitives in texas, as the mother of a murdered 
cop says lax security in the state prison is to blame for her son's 
death. texas has the 2nd largest prison population in the country 
behind california, and it actually has a good record on escapes. of 
150,000 inmates statewide, there were just seven escapes last year. 
all but one were caught. but that was before december 13th when these 
seven broke out. with the latest, here's nbc's shellee smith, "in 
depth." if you want to know how tense it is in texas tonight, just 
look at the reaction to a simple burglar alarm. guns drawn, a s.w.a.t. 
team cautiously approaches this sporting goods store in arlington. 
after a full search that takes hours, a sigh of relief -- another 
false alarm. in san marcos, near austin, bank employees call police 
after a suspicious man enters, appears to check out the security, 
asks about opening an account, then quickly leaves with several other 
men in three cars. witnesses identify two of the texas seven escapees. 
it may be a good sighting. we don't have hard forensic proof. we don't 
have fingerprints. we don't have anything else that leads us to yes, 
these were these seven individuals. the seven bandits who broke out 
of a maximum security prison last month. it's the latest in a string 
of sightings in texas, oklahoma, colorado and louisiana. wanted signs 
are everywhere, even on pizza boxes. today, police release new sketches 
of the escapees, highlighting their features. joseph garcia has a 
large mole. larry harper, an infection around his lip. harper and 
george rivas, the alleged ringleader, both wear glasses. and new information 
about blood found at the scene of a christmas eve robbery in which 
officer aubrey hawkins was shot 11 times. police say rivas' gang executed 
him. lab tests show hawkins wasn't the only one hurt. we have very 
good reason to believe that two of the suspects were injured during 
some point. mounting pressure tonight on the texas prison system from 
the grieving mother of that officer, demanding answers about the death 
of her son. he did every day what he loved. today, jayne hawkins wrote 
a scathing letter, published in "the dallas morning news," criticizing 
the lax security in texas' prison system. she was having dinner with 
her son just moments before he was killed. the photographs of the 
prison on television show razor wire. i think, "what's the point?" 
why do we have that when they can drive out? the convicts took several 
civilian employees hostage, stole their clothes and a prison truck. 
there was negligence that night. there is no question in my mind. 
the state of texas has nothing to be proud of. we're not looking for 
a scapegoat. we're not looking for excuses. we want to know what happened 
and let the chips fall where they may. next week we may have a better 
idea of how seven thugs could drive out of a maximum security prison. 
that's when the texas department of criminal justice will release 
its own investigation of the great escape to the public. tonight, 
here in dallas, what was once a routine call produces a big show of 
force. shellee smith, nbc news, dallas.