Moving quickly to show support for Yugoslavia's opposition leader, 
Vojislav Kostunica, the European Union announced Friday that its foreign 
ministers would meet Monday to begin lifting sanctions imposed on 
the country in 1999. The decision, coming much sooner than many had 
expected, will begin to make good on a September promise to reward 
the Yugoslavs if they ousted President Slobodan Milosevic in the Sept. 
24 elections. In a brief statement that echoed those from leaders 
across Western Europe, President Jacques Chirac of France, which holds 
the current rotating presidency of the 15-nation union, congratulated 
the people of Yugoslavia on liberating themselves first with a vote 
``and then in the street'' when it seemed their victory ``might be 
stolen from them.'' As president of France and the leader of the union, 
Chirac officially recognized Kostunica as the new president of Yugoslavia. 
``Today I salute President Kostunica,'' he said, ``and I confirm that 
sanctions will be lifted with the return of democracy.'' Sealing the 
ready approval with which the new leader of Yugoslavia is being welcomed 
by a world weary of Milosevic's brutality, Chirac also invited Kostunica 
to attend a summit meeting of European Union leaders scheduled late 
next week in Biarritz, France. In Germany, a spokesman for Chancellor 
Gerhard Schroeder said he had canceled all his engagements Friday 
to follow developments in Yugoslavia _ an indication of the gravity 
with which events are viewed across a continent on which Milosevic's 
reign represented the last scourge of communist rule. European Union 
officials said that barring any sudden changes in Yugoslavia, the 
foreign ministers would probably lift an oil embargo and a flight 
ban immediately. But lifting the other two sanctions _ financial restrictions 
that have affected the majority of the country's larger companies 
and a ban on visas for Milosevic, his family and close associates 
might take more time. It is not clear what the future holds for Milosevic, 
who on Friday night appeared on Yugoslav television and congratulated 
Kostunica on winning the presidential elections, but seemed to envision 
a future for himself that would still involve a role in Yugoslavia's 
politics. In the light of Milosevic's indictment on charges of war 
crimes, that would be difficult for the West to tolerate, and would 
probably complicate Kostunica's efforts to introduce real democracy 
to Yugoslavia. ``Nobody would want to fetch up in a situation in which 
some of those who were most guilty for what has happened in the last 
few years, who were most guilty for cheating the Serbian people, were 
able to disappear with their loot to some warm clime,'' said Chris 
Patten, who as external relations commissioner for the European Union 
has handled many of the bloc's policies toward Yugoslavia. Patten 
said the union would move swiftly to bolster the relief assistance 
it has already provided in much smaller quantities, and with great 
difficulty, to isolated Yugoslav cities governed by the opposition 
to Milosevic. Yugoslavia is coping with hundreds of thousands of Yugoslav 
refugees from the wars that Milosevic lost in Croatia, Bosnia and 
Kosovo, and the general standard of living in Yugoslavia has plummeted 
in recent years. The European Commission, working with opposition 
economists, has estimated that Yugoslavia, which consists of Serbia 
and the small republic of Montenegro, needs about $4 billion to rebuild 
itself over seven years. The European Union is considering contributing 
about half that amount. The apparent downfall of Milosevic could either 
speed the greater integration of the Balkan peninsula with the rest 
of Europe, or emphasize the continent's effective division into two 
Europes, with the southeastern part a region of unstable and impoverished 
countries lagging far behind wealthier Central and Western Europe. 
Many questions remain about whether the European Union will come up 
with the support it has talked of offering to the Balkans. Already, 
Western Europe is struggling with how and when it will integrate nearly 
a dozen countries that appear to have the economic credentials to 
join the union within the decade. Speaking in Poland on Friday, Prime 
Minister Tony Blair of Britain took his turn at tackling the subject 
of the future of Europe, saying that the ``hand of partnership'' had 
to be held out to the Yugoslavian people. Enlargement, he said, had 
to come soon. Without it, he said, ``Western Europe will always be 
faced with the threat of instability, conflict and mass migration 
on its borders.'' ``Without enlargement,'' he added, ``the political 
consensus behind economic and political reform in the weaker transition 
countries may splinter.'' Blair offered yet another model of what 
shape the European Union should take. In May, Germany's foreign minister, 
Joschka Fischer, suggested that a European federation with a directly 
elected president and a parliament sharing real executive and legislative 
powers was needed. A month later, Chirac suggested a far looser structure, 
a ``united Europe of states rather than a United States of Europe,'' 
where some countries could forge ahead and cooperate on matters that 
other countries were not interested in. Blair on Friday called for 
a ``statement of principles'' agreed to by all members, which would 
define what should be governed at a European level and what would 
be decided nationally. He also suggested a second chamber of the European 
Parliament, comprising representatives of national parliaments, to 
oversee common European foreign and security policy. ``The most important 
challenge is for Europe to wake up to the new reality,'' he said. 
``Europe is widening and deepening simultaneously. There will be more 
of us in the future, trying to do more.''