Defense Secretary William Cohen plans to order a new review to determine 
whether military commanders in the Persian Gulf should be held accountable 
for any security lapses that contributed to the bombing of the destroyer 
Cole in Yemen last October, Pentagon officials said Friday. The review 
raises the possibility that any punishment resulting from the attack 
could include high-ranking commanders in the Persian Gulf region. 
One official said the review would be led by the chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, Army Gen. Henry Shelton. Cohen's decision came after 
a Defense Department commission concluded that there were significant 
security shortcomings in the region before a skiff packed with explosives 
attacked the Cole as it stopped to refuel in the Yemeni port of Aden 
on Oct. 12, killing 17 sailors and wounding 39 others. That commission 
_ led by two retired commanders, Adm. Harold Gehman and Army Gen. 
William Crouch _ avoided assigning blame, focusing instead on improving 
security for U.S. forces in the region. But its findings, which the 
Pentagon plans to make public next week, have raised enough questions 
to merit a review of the actions of commanders who oversee military 
operations in the Persian Gulf region, the officials said. In a separate 
Navy inquiry that focused on actions about the Cole, an investigator 
concluded last month that the destroyer's captain and crew failed 
to follow a series of strict security procedures on the day it stopped 
in Yemen to refuel. The finding raises the prospect of disciplinary 
action against the Cole's captain, Cmdr. Kirk Lippold, and others 
aboard the destroyer. A final report of that inquiry Friday reached 
Adm. Vern Clark, who as chief of naval operations is the Navy's senior 
officer. Navy officials emphasized that Clark, like other commanders 
below him, had the authority to revise any findings of fault before 
the investigation was considered complete. Cohen's decision to order 
a new accountability review may address some Navy officials' concerns 
by reviewing whether lapses beyond the actions of the Cole's crew 
might have left the destroyer vulnerable. The officials declined to 
identify any officers whose actions would be the focus of the new 
inquiry, saying it would be wrong to prejudge the review. But the 
report of the commission led by Gehman and Crouch, which is being 
put into final form this weekend, has raised questions about whether 
officers in the U.S. Central Command did enough to share intelligence 
reports with the Cole's officers, even if none were specific enough 
to warrant calling off the Cole's refueling stop in Yemen on the day 
of the attack. ``There was sufficient intelligence that should have 
prompted warnings,'' one Defense Department official said, summarizing 
the commission's findings. Ever since the Cole attack, the Pentagon 
has been under intense pressure, particularly from lawmakers on Capitol 
Hill, to determine whether anything could have been done to prevent 
the bombing, which tore a ragged 40-foot-by-40-foot hole in the destroyer's 
port side. But the new inquiry, like the Navy's, may conclude that 
there was little, short of avoiding refueling in Yemen, that would 
have prevented what was clearly a meticulously planned suicide bombing. 
While the report of the commission led by Gehman and Crouch identifies 
problems with protecting U.S. forces in the region, it will not attribute 
the Cole bombing to any one lapse, the officials said. For that reason, 
it could be difficult for a new review to ascribe blame to individual 
commanders. Cohen's decision to order a new review will effectively 
leave any findings of fault to President-elect George W. Bush's choice 
as the next defense secretary, Donald Rumsfeld.