Citing security concerns, the U.S. Embassy in Rome sent most of its 
employees home for the day Friday. ``We had credible information and 
we decided as a precaution to close down the embassy,'' a spokesman 
for the embassy said. The State Department did not describe the nature 
of the threat. Other U.S. consulates in Italy remained open, and the 
embassy said it would decide over the weekend whether to re-open to 
the public on Monday. Officials in Washington said that U.S. intelligence 
recently was told of a threat made by Islamic terrorists against the 
interests of the United States and at least one other country represented 
in Rome. Other officials said the threat came from people associated 
with Osama Bin Laden's organization, Al-Qaeda. But officials cautioned 
that there was no specific threat made against the U.S. Embassy in 
Rome, which is in the heart of the city and employs 300 workers, Italian 
and American. An official added that the general threat comes at a 
time of increased Islamic terrorist threats throughout Europe. An 
embassy spokesman told The Associated Press that ``we looked at the 
information and we think it was sufficient justification to take measures 
to protect'' the staff. It was the first time the embassy had closed 
for security reasons since the Persian Gulf War, a spokesman, Ian 
Kelly, told Bloomberg News. He said that U.S. offices in Istanbul, 
Turkey, and Amman, Jordan, had recently closed for short times for 
security reasons. While the government insisted that the closing was 
merely precautionary, it also acted Friday to extend a warning already 
in effect to citizens traveling abroad. Travelers should maintain 
a low profile, vary routes and times for travel and treat with suspicion 
mail from unfamiliar sources, the State Department said. ``Vehicles 
should not be left unattended, if at all possible, and should be kept 
locked at all times,'' it added. The extension is of a warning issued 
on Oct. 12, the day that an apparent suicide attack killed 17 American 
sailors on the destroyer Cole in Yemen.