In his final days as defense secretary, William Cohen will call for 
a broader review of accountability for security lapses in connection 
with the USS Cole bombing, a senior defense official said Saturday. 
The inquiry will go beyond the Navy's own investigation of the actions 
of the captain and crew of the Cole, which was attacked by suicide 
bombers in Aden harbor in Yemen on Oct. 12 as it was refueling. Seventeen 
sailors were killed. The Navy inquiry last week reached the office 
of the chief of naval operations, Adm. Vern Clark. It examined in 
detail the ship's self-protection plan and could lead to disciplinary 
action against the Cole's commander, Cmdr. Kirk S. Lippold, and perhaps 
others aboard the destroyer. Cohen wants to see if others in the chain 
of command above Lippold and possibly outside the Navy should be held 
accountable. Details of how the assessment will be done, and by whom, 
have yet to be worked out, said the official, who discussed the matter 
on condition of anonymity. Cohen has not announced the planned review. 
Shortly after the terrorist attack, Cohen established a special commission 
led by a retired Navy admiral and a retired Army general to see what 
security lessons could be learned from the Cole incident. The commission, 
whose report is due to be released publicly in a few days, did not 
assess accountability. The New York Times reported Saturday that Cohen 
wants a new review to determine whether military commanders in the 
Persian Gulf, including high-ranking officers, should be punished. 
The report said the new review would be led by Gen. Henry H. Shelton, 
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Officials told The Associated 
Press on Saturday that Cohen has not decided who will lead the inquiry 
or what form it will take. ``He just wants to create a mechanism for 
answering the question: Is there an accountability issue?'' one official 
said. ``It's appropriate to ask the question: Did everyone act as 
expected?'' He said it may turn out that no one beyond the crew of 
the Cole will be held accountable. It is not clear how long the additional 
review would take, but presumably it will wind up being the responsibility 
of Defense Secretary-designate Donald Rumsfeld, who is set to take 
over for Cohen on Jan. 20.