in texas, prison officials already angered over the escape of seven 
dangerous inmates three weeks ago may well be embarrassed tonight. 
it turns out they may have unwittingly set the stage for the escape 
by allowing the inmates to picnic unsupervised just before they pulled 
off their daring escape plan. here's abc's mike von fremd. prison 
officials have given abc news this confidential memo spelling out 
the details the day the seven escapees outsmarted the prison guards. 
the memo, written by a state prison investigator, says the escape 
began when "11 maintenance workers went to lunch," leaving the inmates 
unsupervised by a prison guard, which officials today admit is routine 
in a medium security prison. they had supervision, supervision by 
a maintenance supervisor. but officials are furious over the investigators' 
characterization that the inmates were in the maintenance shop enjoying 
"a picnic of sorts" just before taking hostages. the designation picnic 
lunch was totally uncalled for. the spokesman says the inmates were 
simply eating snacks they had purchased in the commissary. the memo 
says when the guards and prison staff returned to the maintenance 
shop, "one by one, the inmates took them hostage." the group stole 
their clothes, then stole a flatbed truck in the prison courtyard 
and fooled guards into thinking they were about "to install video 
surveillance equipment." they overpowered the remaining guards and 
loaded up their truck with 14 revolvers, a rifle, a shotgun and 200 
rounds of ammunition, which they later allegedly used to ambush officer 
aubrey hawkins in a christmas eve robbery of a sporting goods store. 
officer hawkins' mother is outraged by the details in the memo and 
says the sloppy security at the prison contributes to the death of 
her son. it's almost hard for me to grasp that those kinds of things 
happen, that kind of inefficiency and irresponsibility. i don't understand 
that. there's no reason for that. it should not have happened. next 
week, prison officials will release their official account of what 
went wrong during the escape. tonight, they say the whereabouts of 
the texas seven remain as much a mystery as ever. mike von fremd, 
abc news, dallas. as always, you can find full coverage of this developing 
story at our website, abcnews.com.