The search for a gang of seven fugitives from a Texas prison continued 
Saturday as a state official said a leaked memo detailing their escape 
had been misconstrued and that supervisors had never left the inmates 
alone. Part of the memo describing an inmate ``picnic'' during the 
lunch hour that preceded the Dec. 13 escape was inaccurately reported 
by the media, said Glen Castlebury, a spokesman for the Texas Department 
of Criminal Justice. According to the memo, six inmates working in 
the maintenance department of the medium-security Connally Unit told 
their civilian supervisors they weren't going to the inmate dining 
room but planned to eat in the maintenance area. Castlebury said media 
reports indicated the inmates were left alone when the supervisors 
left for their own lunch, when in fact a maintenance supervisor had 
stayed in the room. ``It wasn't like everybody walked away and said 
'OK, inmates, take over,''' Castlebury said. A seventh inmate probably 
joined the others after the supervisors left, the memo said. Castlebury 
said the inmates overpowered the remaining supervisor, then took the 
10 civilian workers and a guard hostage one at a time when they returned 
from lunch, Castlebury said. He said a report on the investigation 
of the escape would be released around the middle of the week. ``The 
memo was written and destined to stay in the hands of people involved 
in the hunt for the fugitives,'' he said. ``I have no idea how it 
went from one set of hands to the other.'' The memo was disclosed 
Friday by KHOU-TV of Houston, which did not say how it obtained the 
document. After overpowering the supervisors, the memo said, one of 
the inmates called a guard tower, pretended to be a prison supervisor 
and said he was sending a crew to work on surveillance equipment. 
An inmate dressed in stolen civilian clothes then tricked the tower 
guard into letting him and three other inmates inside, the memo said. 
After they overpowered that guard, they had control of the tower, 
an armory and the prison gates. All seven then were able to leave 
the prison in a truck they had loaded with provisions, 14 pistols, 
a rifle, a shotgun and more than 200 rounds of ammunition. The fugitives 
are wanted on capital murder charges following the robbery of a sporting 
goods store in a Dallas suburb on Christmas Eve. Irving police officer 
Aubrey Hawkins was shot 11 times _ six times in the head. Authorities 
across the state had received more than 1,200 tips by Saturday. DNA 
evidence indicated that two of the inmates probably were injured during 
the robbery. Irving police said blood from Hawkins and two other people 
was found in a vehicle that was stolen at the scene and later abandoned. 
George Rivas, 30, is believed to be the ringleader. He was serving 
a life sentence for aggravated robbery and kidnapping in El Paso. 
The others are Larry Harper, 37, serving 50 years for aggravated sexual 
assault in El Paso; Randy Halprin, 23, serving 30 years for injury 
to a child; Michael Rodriguez, 38, life for capital murder in San 
Antonio; Donald Newbury, 38, 99 years for aggravated robbery; Joseph 
Garcia, 29, 50 years for murder in San Antonio; and Patrick Henry 
Murphy Jr., 50 years for aggravated sexual assault with a deadly weapon 
and burglary in Dallas. ___ On the Net: Irving Police Department: 
www.irvingpd.com Texas Department of Criminal Justice: http://www.tdcj.state.tx.us/index.htm