In his final days as defense secretary, William Cohen will call for 
a broader review of accountability for security lapses in connection 
with the USS Cole bombing, a senior defense official said Saturday. 
The inquiry will go beyond the Navy's own investigation of the actions 
of the captain and crew of the Cole, which was attacked by suicide 
bombers in Aden harbor in Yemen on Oct. 12 as it was refueling. Seventeen 
sailors were killed. The Navy inquiry last week reached the office 
of the chief of naval operations, Adm. Vern Clark. It examined in 
detail the ship's self-protection plan and could lead to disciplinary 
action against the Cole's commander, Cmdr. Kirk S. Lippold, and perhaps 
others aboard the destroyer. The Washington Post reported in Sunday's 
editions that the officer who prepared the report to Clark, Adm. Robert 
J. Natter, concluded that no one should be punished. In doing so, 
Natter rejected the conclusion of a lower-ranking investigating officer 
that some security precautions if taken could have mitigated the effects 
of the explosion. The Post said one apparent reason for Natter's recommendation 
is that the Navy believes the actions of Lippold after the attack 
saved the ship from sinking. ``The captain and his senior officers 
are heroes for what they did to save the ship,'' the Post quoted one 
Pentagon official familiar with the Navy investigation as saying. 
The paper said the official, nonetheless, was critical of the Navy's 
inclination not to discipline anyone. Cohen wants to see if others 
in the chain of command above Lippold and possibly outside the Navy 
should be held accountable. Details of how the assessment will be 
done, and by whom, have yet to be worked out, said the official, who 
discussed the matter on condition of anonymity. Cohen has not announced 
the planned review. Shortly after the terrorist attack, Cohen established 
a special commission led by a retired Navy admiral and a retired Army 
general to see what security lessons could be learned from the Cole 
incident. The commission, whose report is due to be released publicly 
in a few days, did not assess accountability. The New York Times reported 
Saturday that Cohen wants a new review to determine whether military 
commanders in the Persian Gulf, including high-ranking officers, should 
be punished. The report said the new review would be led by Gen. Henry 
H. Shelton, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Officials told 
The Associated Press on Saturday that Cohen has not decided who will 
lead the inquiry or what form it will take. ``He just wants to create 
a mechanism for answering the question: Is there an accountability 
issue?'' one official said. ``It's appropriate to ask the question: 
Did everyone act as expected?'' He said it may turn out that no one 
beyond the crew of the Cole will be held accountable. It is not clear 
how long the additional review would take, but presumably it will 
wind up being the responsibility of Defense Secretary-designate Donald 
Rumsfeld, who is set to take over for Cohen on Jan. 20.