They call it the DD-21 destroyer: an electric-powered stealth ship 
designed to attack enemies hundreds of miles inland from any of the 
world's oceans as well as fight at sea. It will carry more Tomahawk 
cruise missiles and bigger guns than any destroyer in existence, yet 
will need fewer than a third as many sailors and cost less to operate, 
say its advocates, who include the secretary of the Navy, Richard 
Danzig, and leading members of Congress. ``It's like going from sail 
to steam,'' asserts Kendell Pease, a vice president of General Dynamics 
and a former rear admiral. General Dynamics will release its first 
public diagrams of the DD-21 at a Navy conference this week. Yet for 
all the hoopla over it, the DD-21 faces a gantlet of obstacles emblematic 
of the broader problems that the armed services and the administration 
of President-elect George W. Bush will confront as they struggle to 
balance modernizing the military with paying for the upkeep of the 
aging equipment they have now. During the campaign, Bush hammered 
home the need to rebuild the services, calling for an acquisition 
program that would ``propel America generations ahead in military 
technology.'' To its advocates, DD-21 fits that goal, and Bush is 
on record as promoting an earlier version of the DD-21 known as the 
arsenal ship. But Bush also never explained how he would pay for such 
leap-ahead technology, and therein lies the rub. Like the other services, 
the Navy is struggling just to pay for mundane things like fuel, spare 
parts and paint. And long before it can expect to sail its first DD-21, 
in 2010, the Navy says it must replace aging planes and rusting ships 
that are scheduled for retirement in the coming decade. The Congressional 
Budget Office has predicted that the Pentagon budget will have to 
grow by as much as $70 billion a year to maintain weapons systems 
while moving ahead with new ones like the DD-21. Some senior Pentagon 
officials say the shortfall is well over $100 billion a year. Yet 
Bush has called for increasing military spending by just $45 billion 
over the next decade. That means that Bush's choice for secretary 
of defense, Donald H. Rumsfeld, will almost surely have to cancel 
or postpone major programs in development, defense analysts say. High 
on that list of potential victims are the Air Force's F-22 fighter, 
the most expensive jet in history, costing as much as $180 million 
each; the Marine Corps' V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft, at as much 
as $80 million each; and the DD-21, at $750 million each. Important 
decisions on the F-22, a stealth fighter for air-to-air combat, could 
be made as soon as this week, when a Pentagon panel is scheduled to 
decide whether to allow the plane to go into production. Though an 
outright cancellation of the program seems unlikely, a chorus of F-22 
critics in and outside the Pentagon are calling for a postponement 
or cutbacks in the program, which has been plagued by production delays 
and cost overruns. Advisers to Bush have also said they plan to review 
all of the Pentagon's fighter plane programs this spring. The Marine 
Corps' V-22 Osprey is also in some peril, having suffered two fatal 
crashes last year. The departing secretary of defense, William S. 
Cohen, has called for an independent review of the program, which 
was almost canceled 11 years ago by Dick Cheney, who was secretary 
of defense then and has returned to Washington as the vice president-elect. 
But the DD-21 is arguably the most endangered of the big-ticket programs 
because it is the furthest from being developed. While actual V-22's 
and F-22's are already flying, the DD-21, with its radar-deflecting 
hull and futuristic electric propulsion system, exists mainly on drawing 
boards at the Bath Iron Works in Maine, owned by General Dynamics, 
and Ingalls Shipbuilding's yards in Pascagoula, Miss., owned by Litton 
Industries. The two shipbuilders are heading competing consortiums 
seeking to design the ship. Under current Navy plans, a contract for 
the program would be issued this spring, calling for the first DD-21 
keel to be laid in 2005 and the first completed ship to enter the 
fleet in 2010. The Navy wants to build 32 vessels to replace its Spruance-class 
destroyers. The long lead time will give the destroyer's critics _ 
and they are many _ time to postpone or kill the program. There are 
academics who argue that the Navy should build a fleet of small, inexpensive 
``street fighter'' ships capable of operating close to shore in mine-infested 
waters and fending off attacks from low-tech enemies, like the terrorists 
who nearly sank the destroyer Cole in Yemen last October. Others contend 
that the Navy could save money by shelving the DD-21 and simply refitting 
four Trident nuclear submarines, scheduled for retirement, with Tomahawk 
missiles instead. And critics of Pentagon spending raise questions 
about the need for a new class of powerful destroyers when the United 
States faces no superpower rival on the high seas. That money might 
be better spent on diplomacy than weapons, some contend. ``It feels 
to me like the Navy is still feeling around for a mission when they 
really don't have an enemy to face,'' said Eugene Carroll, a retired 
rear admiral who is vice president of the Center for Defense Information, 
a nonprofit Pentagon watchdog group. But what the program has going 
for it is the support of two important Republican senators: Trent 
Lott of Mississippi, where half of the DD-21's would be built, and 
John W. Warner of Virginia. With Bush's inauguration, Lott will resume 
his duties as Senate majority leader and Warner will continue as chairman 
of the Senate Armed Services Committee. There is also wide agreement 
that the Navy must remake itself to meet the new, if less clear, challenges 
of the post-Soviet era. And many military experts say that mission 
must focus not on the blue seas but on the ``green waters'' closer 
to shore. ``In the wake of the end of the Cold War, we recognized 
that the big naval battles on the open sea are not likely,'' said 
Danzig, who will leave his post as Navy secretary this month. ``The 
more relevant issue is to be able to project fire power from the sea 
to the shore. DD-21 would be the first destroyer designed specifically 
to perform that mission.'' The DD-21 would serve that mission in several 
ways, its defenders say. First, it would be stealthier. Propelled 
by electric engines, it would be quieter than existing ships. It would 
also have a narrower inverted-V hull designed to avoid detection by 
radar or sonar. Second, it would carry far more firepower than existing 
destroyers, hauling at least 120 cruise missiles and 1,500 5-foot-long 
``bullets'' for its two 33-foot-long guns. Those guns would be able 
to hit targets 100 miles inland, four times as far as guns on most 
destroyers. And with its more efficient electric propulsion system, 
it would be able to stay at sea longer without refueling. The Navy 
also wants the ship designed to operate with a crew of just 95, instead 
of the 325 sailors aboard existing destroyers. The sharp reduction 
would be made possible by several innovations: Electric drive would 
mean fewer moving parts and less maintenance; rust-resistant paint 
would require less scraping and repainting; meals prepared in advance 
would end the need for squads of potato-peelers and soup-stirrers. 
With its lower fuel costs and smaller crew, each DD-21 would save 
the Navy $30 million a year, Danzig contends. The smaller crew would 
also help the Navy with its recruiting problems. So would the fact 
that the ship, with smaller engines and larger hull, would give sailors 
more spacious living quarters, with six-bed ``staterooms'' rather 
than cramped, 40-bed bunkrooms. But all that sounds too good to be 
true, critics of the program contend. More important, Danzig, a leading 
champion of the program, will soon be out of office, making the ship 
even more vulnerable, some Navy officials say. Danzig insists the 
program will be sustained. If testing proves that the ship can do 
what it is designed to do, ``it will be quite apparent that this is 
just a good idea,'' he said.