Navy commanders overseeing an investigation of the suicide attack 
on the destroyer Cole in Yemen in October have recommended that neither 
the ship's captain nor crew members be punished, even though they 
failed to follow certain security guidelines, officials said on Sunday. 
The recommendation raises the question whether any American commanders 
will ultimately be held responsible for the Cole bombing, which killed 
17 sailors, wounded 39 others and very nearly sank one of the world's 
most powerful warships. The recommendation was made first by the naval 
commander in the Persian Gulf and endorsed by the commander of the 
entire Atlantic Fleet. It overturned the initial findings of an investigative 
officer who had concluded that the effects of the attack might have 
been mitigated if the Cole's captain had adhered to security measures, 
the officials said. In reviewing those findings, however, the commanders 
argued that the Cole's captain, Cmdr. Kirk S. Lippold, made defensible 
decisions to revise some of those measures and to skip others. They 
concluded that none of the required measures would, even in hindsight, 
have stopped two suicide bombers from steering a skiff packed with 
explosives to the side of the Cole and detonating it, the officials 
said. The Cole, for instance, did not have an Arabic speaker aboard 
when it pulled into the Yemeni port of Aden to refuel on the morning 
of Oct. 12, as required by security guidelines issued by the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, the officials said. Lippold also decided against 
having officers stand watch on the bridge, assigning them instead 
to the quarterdeck. Nor did he order the crew to prepare fire hoses 
that could have been used to repel attackers, the officials said. 
Since the crew believed that the skiff was part of a flotilla of harbor 
boats instead of a hostile boat, such precautions would not have made 
a difference, the officials said. ``You've got to weigh the performance 
of the crew against the outcome,'' a senior officer said. ``And had 
they done everything, it would not have changed the outcome.'' The 
Navy's investigation focused narrowly on actions aboard the Cole itself, 
but its basic conclusion, first reported in The Sun of Baltimore on 
Saturday, will focus greater attention on the decisions by commanders 
in the U.S. Central Command that resulted in the Cole's stopping to 
refuel, at only a moderate level of alert, in a country known as a 
haven for terrorists. Senior officials said last week that Secretary 
of Defense William S. Cohen planned to order a new review of accountability 
beyond the Cole. He decided to do so after a broader investigation 
by two retired commanders found significant shortcomings in security 
throughout the region. That investigation _ led by Adm. Harold W. 
Gehman of the Navy and Gen. William W. Crouch of the Army _ did not 
set out to assign blame for the Cole attack. Some Navy officials have 
questioned whether the Cole was left vulnerable when it arrived at 
Aden. Even if there had not been a specific warning of a terrorist 
attack, there had been general warnings, and Yemen was considered 
insecure enough that the American Embassy there was closed as a security 
precaution on the day the Cole stopped to refuel. ``We didn't have 
the kind of information that could have positioned him to deal with 
the threat,'' one Navy officer said, referring to Lippold. The new 
review being ordered by Cohen could assign responsibility to senior 
commanders in the gulf region, but while the services each have systems 
in place for establishing accountability, there is no clear mechanism 
for reviewing the actions of regional commanders. Traditionally, the 
Navy has been vigorous in holding a ship's captain responsible for 
anything that happens on board. The Cole's failure to follow basic 
guidelines for protecting the ship from attack _ in the view of the 
senior admirals reviewing the investigation _ did not reflect lapses 
in judgment or a general laxity toward security, the officials said. 
Instead, they concluded that Lippold made deliberate revisions that 
were reasonable and defensible, the officials said. The initial inquiry, 
led by a captain in the Navy's 5 Fleet in Bahrain, found that the 
crew had failed to carry out nearly half of 62 security steps outlined 
by the Joint Chiefs of Staff to protect ships from terrorist attacks. 
Many of those, such as providing sailors standing watch with night-vision 
goggles, were deemed irrelevant, but the investigating officer concluded 
that roughly 10 others constituted critical lapses, including the 
positioning of the officer on watch on the quarterdeck and not the 
bridge, the officials said. The investigator's conclusions, completed 
last month, were overruled first by the naval commander in the gulf, 
Vice Adm. Charles W. Moore, and then by the commander of the Atlantic 
Fleet, Adm. Robert J. Natter. The commanders concluded that the investigator's 
conclusions took security guidelines too literally and did not account 
for the captain's discretion. One senior official said that while 
the Cole's crew may not have done everything by the book, its performance 
fell within an ``expected range'' of performance, in the commanders' 
view, and thus did not warrant punishment. On Friday, Natter forwarded 
his recommendations to Adm. Vern Clark, who as chief of naval operations, 
is the service's senior officer. Clark could reverse the findings 
yet again, but the officials indicated that he is not expected to 
do so. ``If you have a small boat carrying out a suicide attack,'' 
one official said today, ``there's not a lot you can do to stop it.''