This is The World. I am Lisa Mullins. Even Slobodan Milosevic now 
seems to understand who is the boss in Yugoslavia. Today the man who 
presided over the disintegration of his country for 13 years met at 
his villa with Russia's foreign minister and promised not to use force 
to try to retain power. Milosevic's fate was doomed yesterday when 
hundreds of thousands of Serbs stormed the parliament and several 
TV stations. By day's end, it was clear that the Milosevic era had 
ended and the era of Vojislav Kostunica was about to begin. The World's 
Nenad Shebek filed this report from the Yugoslav capital, Belgrade. 
It was a highly intoxicating night as half of Belgrade celebrated 
in the streets. The morning after, thought of silvering returned to 
reality. Belgrade woke up to piles of garbage and debris, as well 
as some broken windows and looted shops. Within hours, basic services 
resumed and tens of thousands of people started to converge in the 
city center. In the building where the Belgrade State Council meets, 
the former opposition leaders were turning to the business of running 
the country. One of them, Radicor Corech, warns many things can still 
go wrong. We are working on them, we have a vacuum, system does not 
exist anymore. The system collapsed. No body is around. We can't find 
people. Those people we find don't know how to react. This is very 
dangerous. Right now nobody is policing Belgrade. But others here 
are less anxious. Every hour means that we are closer to the final 
victory. Predrag Bulatovic, the deputy leader of Vojislav Kostunica's 
party says that final victory will be sealed as soon as the Parliament 
makes it official. Once the parliament is convened in the founding 
session, it can do the job and Mr. Kostunica who is obsessively devoted 
to the law and constitution, letter of the constitution, would never 
accept any other form on the inauguration. Even then Serbia's new 
leaders will have to make a transition whose difficulty has not always 
been appreciated elsewhere in Eastern Europe, that from opposing the 
government to being the government. Vlatislav Sternavich, advisor 
to the President elect says he is not worried. Democratic opposition 
of Serbia has already formed a crisis team with all basic fields of 
government so to say. So these people are now negotiating actually 
also the formal taking off. And Sternavich says the remaining Milosevic 
loyalists post no threat. Who are they? I mean they are basically 
parts of the Milosevic's team that has of course collapsed and with 
it they have collapsed. In the early evening hours, the head of the 
Serbian Orthodox Church held an opener at thanksgiving mass. He appealed 
to Yugoslavia's army not to oppose the will of the people. One of 
the leaders of the Democratic Alliance, Montelo Beresich, is former 
Chief of Staff of the Yugoslav army. He has been in touch with the 
top brass and says there won't be any trouble from the military. General 
Beresich says that the army belongs to the people and is with the 
people. According to Beresich, if any general were to try to use the 
army against the people, his troops would refuse to follow orders. 
The United States, while enthusiastic about the fall of Milosevic, 
has been cautious about his successor. During the election campaign, 
Kostunica criticized Washington for its policies towards the Balkans. 
He strongly denounced NATO action over Kosovo. The province has been 
administered by the United Nations for the past year and Milosevic 
has repeatedly sought to undermine the U.N. mission. But today, Kostunica 
ally Montono Trichovich, who represents the Kosovo Serbs says the 
change of power in Belgrade will be good for peace in Kosovo. The 
main difference between our policy and the policy of Mr. Milosevic 
is that we want the U.N. mission in Kosovo to succeed while Milosevic 
wanted it to fail, said Tricovic. But if Milosevic has his way, the 
United States will not have seen the end of him. Today, he said he 
wants to stay in politics. Washington immediately rejected that suggestion, 
insisting that Milosevic stand trial on war crime charges. For The 
World, this is Nenad Sebek in Belgrade. Actually, Washington has been 
quite emphatic about what it wants to see in Belgrade. This afternoon, 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright made sure there could be no 
misunderstanding. We have made our position very clear and we believe 
in the importance of accountability for what Milosevic has done and 
the important thing, first is to get him out of any position of any 
kind of power. A very important point is that Kostunica has won, Milosevic 
has lost. His time is over. He must go. Secretary of State Albright 
also applauded Russia's new attitude toward Kostunica. In Belgrade 
today Russian Foreign Minister, Igor Ivanov acknowledged the former 
opposition leader as Yugoslavia's new President. Ivanov then met with 
Milosevic at his home in the Yugoslav capital. It was during that 
meeting, says Susan Woodword of the Center of Defence studies at Kings 
College, London that the former Serbian strong man showed how out 
of touch he has been. Milosevic himself has announced to the Russian 
Foreign Minister Ivanov today that he will come back to normal politics, 
except to feed electorally and continue to be president of his party, 
which has a large number, not the majority of the large numbers of 
seats in the Federal Parliament. I think this is an amazing story, 
in the sense that it reveals how far away from reality Milosevic has 
been for quite some years, protected by people who would tell him 
what they thought he wanted to know, rather than what is real. I don't 
think he has any options. Why didn't Milosevic fight? Well, I think 
Milosevic did fight in the ways that he intended to, namely the image 
we have of Slobodan Milosevic in the United States and in the West 
is only a partial image of what the man is like. It's much more an 
image we have created for ourselves. Whereas Milosevic himself would 
never have held elections if he did not believe in legitimization 
is through normal processes. What he tried to do was maneuver his 
election victory. He was willing to steal some vote, but it was still 
important to him to be elected. So he did choose to fight, but he 
fought by trying to manipulate the constitutional accord, by trying 
to manipulate the Federal Election Commission and it failed. We have 
heard from the White House that the White House feels as though it 
is unacceptable for Milosevic to hold any kind of position of power 
at this point. Do we know how Kostunica feels about that? I mean would 
he include him in the government? Well, I'm glad you've asked the 
question that way because I think one of the things that is very important 
is this is something for the Serbs to do and for Kostunica and his 
cabinet to decide, not for Washington or London or any others to set 
conditions, which is one of the problems we may encounter over the 
next several weeks. Kostunica was very clear during the election campaign 
that he would not send Milosevic to the Hague, that this was a matter 
for the Serbs themselves to resolve. Because he is a constitutional 
lawyer, because his main emphasis throughout the campaign and since 
he won, has been on the rule of law and restoring the rule of law 
in Serbia, I can predict that he would probably want some kind of 
judicial hearing. You might even imagine a process like the "Truth 
and Reconciliation" commission that took place so successfully in 
South Africa. I think there is a lot to be said for having the Serbs 
deal with Milosevic themselves through their own legal system. We 
don't know too much about the man who appears to be if not president 
now on his way to the presidency, Kostunica, except that he is a Serb 
nationalist. He has been in the past very critical of NATO's bombing 
over Kosovo. How much of a friend is he likely to be to the United 
States? He is a very moderate, modest man who is very direct. There 
isn't anything hidden, but he does feel very strongly that the Serbs 
themselves have an important history and culture that has been denied 
them over the last 30 or 40 years. I don't think he is anymore nationalist 
than the people that we have been supporting in Sarajevo, in Zagreb 
and Pristina over the last ten years and indeed it's probably a very 
good thing that he expresses himself as a Serb who is proud of being 
a Serb because of the task that the Serbs have to go through now. 
The hardships that they will have to endure to bring the economy back 
in order, to recreate a democratic system and the rule of law. What 
we do know especially is how important democracy as a set of institutions 
of a constitutional order or the rule of law are to Kostunica. He 
has being showing that all week and I think that is what we will expect 
from him in the future. On the road to reconstruction that some of 
the projects that you are mentioning, will he need Western money, 
may be specifically American money, to accomplish that? He will need 
a lot of money. First of all, the financial sanctions are the most 
difficult aspect of the sanctions to lift because that means rejoining 
the International Monetary Fund, as all countries find at the end 
of wars. The first thing they have to do before they can join the 
IMF and then begin to participate in normal international economic 
activity, including borrowing money, getting World Bank loans, all 
of the kind of credits that they will now need for reconstruction, 
that requires resolving the foreign debt arrears. In addition to that, 
they will need to do a great deal of modernization, but for that the 
European Union has already publicly stated that the EU is ready to 
provide that assistance. Assuming that Kostunica can consolidate power, 
what does this mean for the United States and NATO missions in Bosnia 
and Kosovo? Could the families of those servicemen and women who are 
there expect to see them home any sooner? No. I think that it will 
make a big difference to the region. It certainly will reduce the 
military threat that is perceived to be the reason for having American 
troops in Bosnia and Kosovo, much will be good. But I think that we 
don't realize how much the difficulties in Kosovo and in Bosnia are 
very real. They are not only a result of Slobodan Milosevic, the creation 
of new states out of the former Yugoslavia requires stabilization 
and it will be a long time before the political status of Kosovo can 
be decided and the difficulties within Bosnia and Herzegovina can 
be resolved. We will need NATO troops in the region for sometime. 
Susan Woodword is a senior research fellow at the Center for Defence 
Studies at Kings College in London. It's an understatement but to 
say that it has been a week of momentous change for Yugoslavia. Just 
Monday, Slobodan Milosevic was on National Television denouncing Vojislav 
Kostunica and the opposition as "western lackys" who will lead the 
country into war and poverty. For days the Milosevic regime clung 
to the notion that the presidential election of September 24th was 
inconclusive, that Kostunica had not won outright and that there should 
be a run off election. The opposition would have none of it. They 
called for a general strike to force Milosevic to back down and accept 
defeat. The demonstrations earlier this week turned into a popular 
uprising when the protesters stormed the parliament building in Belgrade 
yesterday. At the end of a day that saw tumultuous scenes, Vojislav 
Kostunica told an ecstatic crowd in the capital that a new Serbia 
had been born. The old Serbia is dead, said Kostunica. This is the 
beginning of a new life in a democratic Serbia. Kostunica implored 
the people to destroy nothing in the beautiful city of Belgrade and 
not to seek revenge either. So Serbia can finally become a normal 
state. And as we have heard from Belgrade today the man now recognized 
as Yugoslavia's President elect has finally begun the process of putting 
together a government.