A key suspect in the attack on the USS Cole told authorities in his 
confession that he believes the suicide bombers acted on the orders 
of Osama bin Laden, Yemeni sources close to the investigation said 
Monday. The suspect's comments provide another in a series of circumstantial 
links between the Saudi exile and the deadly attack on the U.S. warship. 
The sources did not identify the man, but described him as one of 
the three chief suspects in custody. He and up to seven others are 
expected to be tried, perhaps as early as this month, in the Oct. 
12 bombing of the American destroyer that killed 17 U.S. sailors and 
wounded 39 during a refueling stop at Aden harbor. Yemen's prime minister 
has said that authorities have identified one of the bombers and were 
close to identifying the second. Authorities have yet to establish 
a firm connection to bin Laden, but U.S. law enforcement officials 
have said previously that several threads link the suspects now held 
by the Yemenis to the bin Laden organization. Bin Laden, who is living 
in Afghanistan, has virtually declared war on what he sees as the 
anti-Islamic United States, and U.S. officials consider him their 
No. 1 terrorism suspect. The jailed Yemeni man's brother was described 
as a prominent Arab Afghan, as Islamic fighters who helped push Soviet 
forces out of Afghanistan in the 1980s are known. The sources, speaking 
on condition of anonymity, said the suspect confessed that he helped 
his brother run one of two safe houses where visiting fellow Arab 
Afghans would meet. Authorities were searching for the brother, the 
officials said. The brother's safe house, they said, was in Sa'da 
province, near the Saudi border, and the other safe house is in Saudi 
Arabia, though the sources did not say precisely where. The two brothers' 
home is elsewhere in Sa'da province, they said. The suspect in custody 
told authorities that an unidentified Syrian man supervises bin Laden's 
activities in Yemen and Saudi Arabia. The Syrian, he told police, 
is among 12 to 20 Saudis, Yemenis, Egyptians, Syrians and other Arabs 
who are close to bin Laden and live with him in Afghanistan. According 
to the sources, the suspect said all the Afghan Arabs who came to 
his brother's safe house worked for the Syrian. The two alleged suicide 
bombers were among a group that the suspect told investigators visited 
the safe house before the attack on the Cole, the sources said. It 
was not clear when the visit took place, and the identities of the 
two bombers have not been released. The suspect said that the Afghan 
Arabs who came through his safe house were all either preparing attacks 
or hiding out from authorities, so it was natural for him to assume 
the two who authorities believe were the suicide bombers were planning 
something. He told authorities that he had not known what the target 
would be, sources said. According to the sources, the suspect said 
the Syrian did not come to the safe house and that he did not believe 
the man was even in Yemen. Bin Laden, who is of Yemeni descent, recruited 
Arabs in Yemen to the war in Afghanistan in the 1980s and is believed 
to draw on them and other Arab Afghans to support a global militant 
Islamic terror network. According to the sources, the suspect also 
provided some details about how bin Laden's network operates. They 
described his confession as saying that: _If a member of the inner 
circle drops out of sight, an attack is being planned or carried out. 
Even within the group, nobody is allowed to ask questions about where 
the missing man has gone. _Only the most trusted of bin Laden's associates 
are allowed to train in using C-4, the plastic explosive used in the 
Cole bombing. It is considered an honor to receive the training. It 
was unclear whether the suspect had signed the confession. Prosecutors 
in Aden and police ministry officials refused comment on what the 
sources said. Last year, Yemeni sources said that another suspect 
in custody, Jamal al-Badawi, told investigators he received telephone 
instructions for the bombing from a man in the United Arab Emirates 
whom he had met in Afghanistan during the war. Al-Badawi told investigators 
that the man, whom he identified as Mohammed Omar al-Harazi, never 
directly told him he was receiving orders and financing for the attack 
from bin Laden. But he said al-Harazi's tone and manner had led him 
to believe that was the case, according to the sources. On Saturday, 
American and Yemeni investigators visited locations allegedly used 
by the bombers. They took photographs of the area from where the two 
bombers allegedly put their explosives-laden boat into the harbor. 
A fisherman who had seen the suspects near the harbor before the blast 
was there when 10 to 15 investigators dropped by, about half of them 
Americans. They spoke briefly with the fisherman before moving on.