The U.S. military needs to devote much more time and money to combat 
the threat of terrorist attacks, a Pentagon commission that has been 
investigating the attack on the destroyer Cole said Tuesday. The Oct. 
12 attack, which killed 17 sailors and injured several dozen others 
in the Yemeni port city of Aden, ``demonstrated a seam in the fabric 
of our efforts to protect our forces,'' the report said. That phrase 
and others in the 10-page unclassified summary of findings released 
Tuesday afternoon seemed to reflect a deliberately detached, impersonal, 
written-by-committee tone. There was no immediate indication of what 
findings are in a separate 138-page classified report. More importantly, 
perhaps, there was no sign Tuesday of who will bear the ultimate responsibility 
for failing to prevent the attack. It had been expected that the findings 
released Tuesday would not address individual culpability, a point 
that Defense Secretary William S. Cohen reiterated at an afternoon 
news conference. Asked if he were concerned that the omission of a 
finding of blame would make the public think a ``whitewash'' was going 
on, Cohen noted that separate inquiries on the issue of responsibility 
were under way, and that their findings would be given to him before 
he left office with the Clinton administration. Cohen declined comment 
when he was asked if he thought that the destroyer's skipper, Cmdr. 
Kirk S. Lippold, had done everything he could to protect his vessel. 
The secretary said he did not want to ``prejudge.'' The broad-brush 
findings released Tuesday included this passage, ``The level of competence 
with which units execute force protection must be the same level for 
which primary combat skills are executed.'' The Pentagon was to post 
the report Tuesday afternoon on its Web site, www.defenselink.mil. 
Cohen's remarks Tuesday were anticlimactic, since it had been known 
that officers overseeing the investigation had recommended that neither 
the Cole skipper nor any crew members be punished even if shipboard 
errors were visible in hindsight. But whether Lippold will ultimately 
be held accountable was still uncertain Tuesday. Initially, an investigating 
officer concluded that the attack might not have been as disastrous 
if Lippold had adhered more strictly to security guidelines. There 
was no Arabic speaker aboard when the Cole pulled into the port of 
Aden on the morning of Oct. 12, for example. And Lippold had decided 
against having officers stand watch on the bridge, stationing them 
on the quarterdeck instead. Nor did the skipper order the crew to 
prepare fire hoses to repel attackers. Even if fire hoses had been 
ready, they might not have made a difference, since the men on the 
skiff used in the attack had managed to insinuate their craft into 
the harbor flotilla. Another inevitable consideration is the general 
difficulty of preventing an attack if the attackers are willing, indeed 
determined, to sacrifice their lives. ``You've got to weigh the performance 
of the crew against the outcome,'' one senior officer said this week. 
``And had they done everything, it would not have changed the outcome.''