Failure of a prison guard to check identification of an inmate purporting 
to be a worker helped lead to the escape of seven convicts, a report 
said. The inmates, who remain at large, took 16 weapons and more than 
200 rounds of ammunition after overpowering guards during the escape 
from the the maximum-security Connally Unit near San Antonio Dec. 
13. They amassed dozens more weapons in a sporting goods store robbery 
on Christmas Eve, during which Irving police officer Aubrey Hawkins 
was shot to death. A $200,000 reward has been offered for the capture 
of the escapees, who authorities believe are hiding in the Dallas-Fort 
Worth area. According to a report by the Texas Board of Criminal Justice, 
which is set to be released Thursday, a guard allowed an inmate clad 
in street clothes who represented himself as a worker into the guard 
tower. The inmate overpowered the guard there and opened an exterior 
gate freeing the other six prisoners. The street clothes came from 
a maintenance worker who had been overpowered by prisoners in an inmate 
lunch area, the report said. The report cites the prison guard's failure 
to follow procedure as the most significant factor in the escape, 
board chairman Mac Stringfellow told the Houston Chronicle in Tuesday's 
editions. If the guard had followed procedure, the inmates would have 
remained confined in the prison yard, Stringfellow said. ``If they 
fail to follow procedures and guidelines, then this sort of thing 
can happen. That's where the problem lies,'' he said. On Monday, Acting 
Lt. Gov. Bill Ratliff urged the Senate Criminal Justice Committee 
to look into causes of the escape. Stringfellow said that he doesn't 
object to a legislative hearing but that the report would not sugarcoat 
facts surrounding the escape. ``It points fingers where fingers need 
to be pointed,'' he said. Texas' prison system has struggled in recent 
years with high turnover and staff shortages among guards. ``Corrections 
officers are left between a rock and a hard place,'' said Larry Blanchard, 
a Beaumont-based field representative for the American Federation 
of State, County and Municipal Employees, the union that represents 
guards. ``It's a difficult job to do as it is, and there are not enough 
of them to have sufficient security measures in place.''