The USS Cole bombing that killed 17 sailors exposed a ``seam in the 
fabric'' of the U.S. military's anti-terrorism regime but it can be 
strengthened by improved training and intelligence, a panel reported 
Tuesday. Calling terrorism a ``pervasive and enduring threat'' to 
American military forces abroad, the panel appointed by Defense Secretary 
William Cohen spelled out a series of mostly organizational changes 
to deter and mitigate terrorist attacks. The panel, known as the Cole 
Commission, found the Navy and other military services generally react 
to terrorism rather than focusing efforts to detect and deter terrorist 
threats before they can be carried out. ``We must get out of the purely 
defensive mode,'' the report said. The Pentagon's various offices 
and agencies must improve their coordination in order to ``truly gain 
the initiative over a very adaptive, persistent, patient and tenacious 
terrorist,'' the commission said in a 10-page report. The commission, 
headed by retired Navy Adm. Harold Gehman and retired Army Gen. William 
Crouch, also produced a classified 138-page version that was not released 
publicly. The panel did not attempt to assess who aboard the Cole 
or at higher levels in the Navy or the Pentagon could be faulted for 
failing to stop the attack, which occurred while the Cole was refueling 
in Aden harbor. No one aboard the Cole attempted to stop the attacking 
boat, which was a small harbor craft that sidled up to the Cole and 
detonated a load of explosives. The issue of blame was the focus of 
an internal Navy investigation, which has been completed but not publicly 
released. On Monday, a senior defense official said Adm. Vern Clark, 
the chief of naval operations, has decided that neither the captain 
nor the crew of the Cole should be punished. Clark, the final arbiter 
in the matter, endorsed the determination made last week by Adm. Robert 
Natter, commander of the Atlantic Fleet, that no punishment is deserved, 
said the defense official, who is close to the deliberations and who 
discussed the matter on condition of anonymity. Others, higher in 
rank than the Cole's captain, could be held accountable. Cohen plans 
to order a separate accountability review to determine whether military 
officers responsible for U.S. operations in the Persian Gulf area 
can be faulted for shortcomings such as inadequate intelligence warnings 
of threats from terrorists, officials said. In an interview Tuesday 
with a group of reporters, Navy Secretary Richard Danzig said he could 
not discuss the matter because Clark had not yet made public his decision. 
Danzig said, however, that he was pleased the matter would be concluded 
before he leaves office Jan. 20, since ``this happened on our watch.'' 
He said he had not seen Clark's written decision. The Navy planned 
to announce the result of its investigation of the Cole bombing this 
week or next. The probe sought to determine circumstances of the attack 
and what ``force protection,'' or preventive measures, the captain 
ordered the crew to take. Because the Cole's captain, Cmdr. Kirk Lippold, 
did not carry out all of approximately 60 planned actions to ensure 
the ship's protection while on a refueling stop in Yemen's Aden harbor, 
some believed he would be punished and his career ruined. Instead, 
Clark supported Natter's determination that Lippold had done what 
could have been reasonably expected under the circumstances and that 
he was not given necessary information about the terrorist threat 
in Aden, a major port at the southern tip of the Arabian peninsula. 
Clark and Natter also believe that even with security measures in 
place as prescribed, the attack would not have been prevented, officials 
said. As the Cole took on fuel in Aden harbor, a small boat sidled 
up to the 505-foot destroyer. Explosives aboard the boat were detonated 
and ripped a hole 40 feet high by 40 feet wide in the Cole, damaging 
it so severely it almost sank. Senior Navy officials, including Natter, 
praised Lippold and the crew for having acted heroically to save the 
ship. The nature of the attack was unprecedented, although the threat 
was not unimaginable. The military's written guidelines on terror 
threats state explicitly that harbor craft of the sort that approached 
the Cole ``require special concern because they can serve as an ideal 
platform for terrorists.'' The guidelines say fire hoses should be 
ready for emergency use and personnel should be briefed on using them 
for repelling boarders, small boats and ultralight aircraft. On his 
own Lippold, decided not to prepare for using fire hoses, another 
senior defense official said, also speaking anonymously. Lippold apparently 
believed that fire hoses would not strengthen the ship's defenses. 
Some crew members said after the bombing that they saw the small boat 
approach the Cole and assumed it was yet another harbor craft providing 
trash disposal and other services. No one on the Cole challenged the 
craft as it approached. The Navy officer who conducted the Cole investigation, 
whose name has not been disclosed, found that the attack might have 
been prevented or minimized if Lippold had ensured that all preventive 
actions were taken. But Natter disagreed, and Clark endorsed Natter's 
view, the official said. Clark has determined that no negative report 
related to the Cole attack should be placed in Lippold's personnel 
file, the official said. ___ On the Net: Cole site: http://www.spear.navy.mil/ships/ddg67/ 
Navy site: http://www.hq.navy.mil/natops/