The brazen escape of seven inmates from a maximum-security Texas prison 
last month has quickly become the stuff of a crime thriller whose 
ending is not yet known. The escapees remain at large, elusive despite 
a huge manhunt that has intensified since the fugitives were charged 
with the Christmas Eve slaying of a police officer. But as investigators 
follow up more than 2,000 tips, all but a few leading nowhere, the 
prison break has prompted broader concerns about security inside the 
Texas prison system _ now the largest in the country _ and a political 
debate about how to respond. Prison officials say the system remains 
secure but they agree it is under a growing strain. Statistics show 
that the system, with as many as 160,000 inmates in 116 prisons _ 
is near capacity and that incidents of violence between inmates and 
against guards has risen precipitously. Because of the dangerous conditions 
and low pay, union officials say, prison guards, have been leaving 
in droves. ``It's a tough situation, I'm not denying that,'' said 
Mac Stringfellow, chairman of the Texas Board of Criminal Justice, 
which oversees the prison system. ``I think we're doing the best we 
can with what we've got.'' On Thursday morning, Stringfellow is scheduled 
to present a report explaining exactly what happened on Dec. 13, when 
the inmates escaped from the Connally Unit in south Texas. They managed 
to subdue several prison employees, take their clothes and escape 
by convincing a guard that they were maintenance workers. Stringfellow 
attributed the escape to ``several breakdowns'' in procedure by individual 
guards, which he said will be outlined in the report. ``This is a 
tragic, one-time, isolated event,'' he said. ``What happened down 
in Connally is certainly not systemic.'' But others say that to blame 
the incident solely on a handful of guards ignores the larger problems 
facing the system, namely that too few guards are responsible for 
a growing number of hardened offenders serving longer sentences with 
less incentive to behave. Union officials representing prison guards 
say that the Connally unit was understaffed by 22 officers at the 
time of the escape, including a guard who should have been positioned 
at the gate where the inmates left. ``We think it's at a crisis stage,'' 
said Brian Olsen, deputy director of the American Federation of State, 
County and Municipal Employees, which represents about 4,000 of the 
state's roughly 23,500 corrections officers. Over the past 18 months, 
the union has held protests, asking Gov. George W. Bush to call a 
special legislative session to address work conditions and salaries. 
In December 1999, one guard involved in a such a protest, Daniel Nagle, 
was later stabbed to death by an inmate. Bush did not call a special 
session but he took administrative steps that resulted in an annual 
raise of about $1,000 for guards. The union says that salaries for 
prison guards start at $18,000 a year and reach a maximum of $28,000, 
placing Texas 43rd national in pay for corrections officers. Olsen 
said this has contributed to a staff shortage of an estimated 2,500 
guards. Prison attrition statistics show that about 1 in 5 corrections 
officers quit last year. Ken Armbrister, chairman of Criminal Justice 
Committee of the Texas Senate, said a hearing would probably be held 
next week in which lawmakers intended to question prison officials 
about the escape and discuss broader questions. Armbrister agreed 
that the system is straining. One study by state criminal justice 
officials found that Texas would need another 15,000 prison beds by 
2005 if crime rates and current criminal justice policy remained the 
same. But Armbrister said that lawmakers are increasingly unconvinced 
that building more prisons and increasing salaries even more are the 
answers to the problems the system is facing. He predicted that wider 
use of electronic monitoring and other methods would be explored. 
For the past decade, Texas has spent billions on a huge prison construction 
program, more than tripling its inmate population and overtaking California 
in having the largest number of inmates. ``As long as our mindset 
is to just keep on building, how smart can that be?'' asked Armbrister. 
Prison statistics show that the number of escapes throughout the system 
has actually dropped since the mid-1990s. Stringfellow said that all 
but 1 of the 245 inmates who had escaped in the history of the state's 
prison system had been caught. That lone exception is currently in 
Mexico. But the statistics also show that violence inside the prisons 
has risen sharply in recent years, with the number of attacks on guards 
more than doubling from 1996 to 2000, from 918 to 2,267. The Fort 
Worth Star-Telegram this week reported that the same Connally Unit 
from which the inmates escaped has reported 752 assaults against employees 
since it opened in July 1995, the most of any Texas prison unit. Charles 
Terrell, a former chairman of the Texas Board of Criminal Justice, 
has warned in recent weeks that the escape should not be dismissed 
as an aberration but a symptom of the ``hardening'' of the prison 
population as more inmates are serving longer sentences with less 
chance for parole. He noted that the escapees were actually in a position 
of trust at Connally, working on a maintenance crew, despite the fact 
that two were killers, two were armed robbers and the other three 
had been convicted of child abuse, rape and burglary. ``The scariest 
thing is, it could happen again and again, because you've got more 
and more inmates who are doing jobs in the prison who don't have anything 
to lose,'' Terrell said. Last week, an inmate in the prison system 
who was taken to a hospital at Lubbock after swallowing a can opener 
briefly escaped and took two nurses hostage. He was later captured 
and charged with sexually assaulting both women. Prison officials 
note that they have been planning for this hardening of the inmate 
population for more than five years, including building five new units 
designed to house more violent, longer-term offenders. Glen Castlebury, 
a spokesman for the prison system, said that prisons have always been 
violent places to work. As the tips on the prison escapees continue 
to mount, none appear to have brought investigators anything solid 
on where the criminals might be. Unconfirmed sightings of the men, 
who are believed to still be together, have been reported throughout 
Texas and in Oklahoma, Colorado, Louisiana and New Mexico. A reward 
of $200,000 is being offered for information leading to an arrest.