Andre Agassi survived three match points en route to a 3-6, 7-5, 6-1 
victory over France's Nicolas Escude on Thursday in the Colonial Classic 
semifinals. Pete Sampras lost his second consecutive match in the 
warmup tournament for the Australian Open, falling 6-4, 7-6 (5) to 
Australia's Patrick Rafter. Sampras lost to Spain's Juan Carlos Ferrero 
on Wednesday. Rafter caused a stir not only with his victory, but 
also by saying he probably would retire at the end of this year. Sampras 
is seeded third for the Open, which starts Monday. Defending champion 
Agassi is sixth and Rafter 12th. After surviving the three match points 
in the second set, Agassi lost only one more game. ``I was disgusted 
with myself because I was about to lose serve, and you want to make 
him close you out. I hit a few good serves and managed to hold,'' 
Agassi said. ``When I got back into the match, I started making fewer 
mistakes.'' In the final, he will meet the winner of Friday's semifinal 
between Ferrero and Yevgeny Kafelnikov. Sampras said he was not overly 
concerned about his two losses, but hoped to win his match Friday 
in the losers' bracket. ``As long as I'm hitting the ball well and 
feeling well, I think I'm getting there,'' said Sampras, who has won 
a record 13 Grand Slam singles titles. ``When you win matches, you 
build confidence, but if I can play better today than yesterday, I 
can kind of build on it and work on a few things this weekend,'' he 
added. Rafter, a two-time U.S. Open champion and the losing finalist 
against Sampras at Wimbledon last year, gained his first-set break 
in the seventh game with a forehand at Sampras' feet. The two then 
traded breaks in the middle of the second set. Serving at 5-4 in the 
tiebreaker, Rafter lost the point on a foot fault, but then served 
an ace and belted a serve return too wide for Sampras to handle. Despite 
saying this probably was his last Australian Open, Rafter said, ``I 
don't feel any pressures, I don't feel any relief.'' He said he has 
decided to go all out for the whole year, and ``it is not just the 
Australian Open thing.''