Today's other top stories: In Yugoslavia where Slobodan Milosevic 
has told the visiting Russian foreign minister that he does not intend 
to use force to try to retain power. Milosevic, who was forced out 
of office when hundreds of thousands of protestors stormed the Parliament 
building yesterday had something else to say the Russian envoy, something 
that The World's Jennifer Glass in Belgrade says, bordered on the 
absurd. The message that Milosevic had was that he wants to remain 
in politics which seems almost unbelievable, but of course Milosevic 
over the years as a Balkan leader has been an almost unbelievable 
man. Here in Belgrade really people seem to care less about what happens 
to Slobodan Milosevic, now they are just so happy. And this is what 
they are holding a revolution last night. The streets are just full 
of people, coming into Friday night full of partying. There is such 
a festive atmosphere here, you can see it on people's faces. Everyone 
is out on the street and very happy and excited. Yeah, you can certainly 
here a lot of commotion. What's happening around there? Can you describe, 
for instance, what you are hearing from people who you have spoken 
to there. What are they saying about what is transpiring? Well, right 
here I'm in Republic Square in front of what was the Parliament building 
and the windows are broken and the building itself is dark, the people 
are absolutely jubilant, very, very happy. I spoke to a few of them 
earlier and they shared their excitement and what a historic couple 
of days this has been. Hello, how do you feel today? Very exciting 
and very happy here and our children have a future. So why don't you 
tell me what has been happening here? Well, last night it was the 
biggest party of my life. I have never seen so many people smiling 
here. It was freedom in every way. Last night, the building behind 
me it was the parliament of Yugoslavia, was inflamed and that building 
was a symbol of communism I can say. It was beautiful. When we saw 
it in the smoke, in the flame, we thought it was some kind of symbol 
of freedom for us. And this building will be free forever. Jennifer, 
we are hearing behind you what sounds like maybe fireworks or even 
guns going off. Can you tell us what some of the popping noise is? 
There are fireworks going off. No gun shots here. There is certainly 
is no area of violence. You might be hearing them move the barricades 
behind me. I think what's so remarkable here is it was here yesterday 
where you saw those remarkable pictures on television and heard on 
the radio of the crowds. This is where the teargas was fired with 
the first hints that possibly the crowd and the police might have 
some sort of confrontation and today no sign of police at all. Here 
the crowds are policing themselves. Here the only policeman are actually 
at the front door of the parliament building preventing people from 
getting into the deserted building, but the crowds here really are 
just roaming around. It's a very good spirit. There is certainly no 
feeling of animosity or danger or hatred. I think that there is a 
real sense of freedom here and that's the people are just celebrating 
for the first time in more than a decade. They are free to go out, 
to demonstrate to celebrate, to do what they like. So Jennifer, is 
there a feeling at all of vindictiveness, of wanting revenge, or people 
simply happy that there is going to be a change? A lot of the people 
that I have spoken too so far say they do believe there should be 
some justice for Slobodan Milosevic, but they are just so happy that 
there is a change. They are excited that Vojislav Kostunica is their 
new leader. They are optimistic that he will be able to bring about 
change because he has united the opposition, the first Serbian politician 
who has been able to do that here. That has always been the problem. 
While there has always been a very strong opposition, Milosevic was 
always able to divide it quite effectively and remain in power. Kostunica 
has 17 other parties behind him and obviously the will of the people, 
they are thrilled that he has been increasingly recognized by international 
leaders including the Russian foreign minister who was here today. 
So I think that there is a real feeling of change here, a real feeling 
of excitement and hope that things will go well. Are people around 
you carrying placards, are they holding things, I mean, can you describe 
what you are seeing? There are lot of Serbian flags being flown but 
not a lot of placards. This has really turned away from politics and 
really into a joyous demonstration. There are few people I have seen 
with T-shirts putting Kostunica, wearing bumper stickers on their 
sweaters with the date of the first presidential elections, the elections 
that brought Kostunica to power, that show that he has the will of 
the people. But I don't think there are any real political overturns 
here. It's really just a celebration of freedom. The World's Jennifer 
Glass speaking to us from Republic Square in front of the parliament 
building in Belgrade. Thank you very much Jennifer for the update. 
Always a pleasure Lisa.