The seven convicts who escaped from prison systematically overpowered 
guards and staff over a 2 1/2-hour period, eventually driving out 
the rear exit unchallenged in a prison vehicle, according to a report 
released Thursday. The convicts, who escaped Dec. 13 from the Connally 
Unit near Kenedy, are charged in the Christmas Eve slaying of an Irving 
police officer and are still on the loose. In an hour-long report, 
Gary Johnson, director for the institutional division of the Texas 
Department of Criminal Justice, outlined the events leading up to 
the escape. Inmates able to take 11 employees and three prisoners 
hostage in a maintenance storage room binding them with duct tape 
and plastic ties and threatening them with homemade weapons, the report 
said. The report also noted that some of the prison employees held 
hostage in the maintenance area managed to free themselves and pull 
a fire alarm. However, the security officers responsible for responding 
to the fire alarm did nothing to investigate after they called the 
maintenance room and the phone was not answered, the report said. 
The report also said that an officer who had seen several of the inmates 
unsupervised in the maintenance area did not alert anyone. ``In retrospect, 
the events fit together like a puzzle. We just didn't fit them together 
fast enough to keep the offenders from escaping,'' Johnson said. Before 
the report was released, department spokesman Larry Todd said, ``We 
don't have any secrets, and we're not hiding anything. We want to 
be as candid as we possibly can.'' The gang stole work clothing, a 
pickup truck and firearms and left a note saying ``You haven't heard 
the last of us yet.'' Other letters left behind by three of the convicts 
complained of the ``tyranny of the Texas prison system'' and called 
for a revolution, The Dallas Morning News reported Thursday. The breakout, 
robbery and killing triggered an extensive manhunt and touched off 
complaints about guard pay and staff shortages in the nation's largest 
prison system. Although security at state prisons has been stepped 
up since the breakout, Todd said events leading to the escape were 
unusual and would not be repeated at other prisons. State Rep. Judy 
Haley, who represents the district southeast of San Antonio where 
the prison is located, said the breakout happened because legislators 
have not sufficiently funded prison security and guard training. Haley 
is among the lawmakers who want to increase guard pay. ``If we were 
where we need to be, something like that would not have happened,'' 
she said. Starting pay for a Texas prison guard is about $18,000, 
or 43rd in the country, said Brian Olden, executive director of a 
prison employee council within the American Federation of State, County 
and Municipal Employees. Pay for veteran officers was boosted to slightly 
more than $28,000 last year, but that is still behind a national average 
of about $34,000, Olden said. The proposed state budget announced 
Wednesday includes $42 million for prison guard pay raises promised 
last summer but doesn't include any new money for additional raises 
or staff. ___ On the Net: Texas Department of Criminal Justice: http://www.tdcj.state.tx.us