The escape of seven convicts from a maximum-security prison comes 
under scrutiny Thursday with the release of a state report detailing 
the getaway. The Texas Department of Criminal Justice was expected 
to identify who is to blame and how the escape was carried out Dec. 
13 at the Connally Unit near Kenedy. ``We don't have any secrets, 
and we're not hiding anything. We want to be as candid as we possibly 
can,'' department spokesman Larry Todd said. ``The report certainly 
points out some flaws that will be corrected, be it human error or 
a communications fault.'' The breakout has touched off complaints 
about guard pay and staff shortages in the nation's largest prison 
system. The gang broke out of prison by overpowering 10 civilian workers, 
a guard and a supervisor in the maintenance shop where they worked. 
They stole work clothing, a pickup truck and firearms and left a note 
saying ``You haven't heard the last of us yet.'' Other letters left 
behind by three of the convicts complained of the ``tyranny of the 
Texas prison system'' and called for a revolution, The Dallas Morning 
News reported Thursday. The group is charged in the Christmas Eve 
shooting death of a police officer during a holdup at a sporting goods 
store in Irving. A gun taken from the prison was found at the store, 
police said. The robbery has triggered an extensive manhunt. Although 
security at state prisons has been stepped up since the breakout, 
Todd said events leading to the escape were unusual and would not 
be repeated at other prisons. State Rep. Judy Hawley, who represents 
the district southeast of San Antonio where the prison is located, 
said the breakout occurred because legislators have not sufficiently 
funded prison security and guard training. Hawley is among the lawmakers 
who want to increase guard pay. ``If we were where we need to be, 
something like that would not have happened,'' she said. Starting 
pay for a Texas prison guard is about $18,000, or 43rd in the country, 
said Brian Olsen, executive director of a prison employee council 
within the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. 
Pay for veteran officers last year was boosted to slightly more than 
$28,000, compared with a national average of about $34,000, Olsen 
said. The proposed state budget announced Wednesday includes $42 million 
for prison guard pay raises promised last summer but doesn't include 
any new money for additional raises or staff. The Texas prison system 
has 23,622 guards, with a total of 2,595 open positions. Olsen said 
the Connally Unit was 22 officers short the day of the escape. ___ 
On the Net: Texas Department of Criminal Justice: http://www.tdcj.state.tx.us