nbc news "in depth" tonight -- the texas prison break. seven very 
dangerous convicts who escaped from a maximum security prison almost 
a month ago allegedly murdered a police officer in a robbery and are 
still at large tonight. the frightening details of how they got loose 
contained in a scathing report that declares the system failed. the 
texas prison system is now the largest in the country, surpassing 
even california. 160,000 inmates in 116 prisons across the state. 
so how did these seven get out? and whose fault was it? "in depth" 
tonight, here's nbc's shellee smith, in austin. the meeting is now 
declared open. the first details of a daring prison escape revealed 
today in an emotionally charged news conference with the texas prison 
system under fire from guards and a victim's family. when staff is 
taken hostage, seven offenders are able to flee custody, and a police 
officer is tragically murdered by offenders incarcerated in our prison 
system, the system has failed. a key finding -- lax security. the 
texas department of criminal justice blaming its own employees, who 
didn't follow the rules. here's how the escape began. 11:20, six inmates 
choose to eat lunch in the maintenance shop. they also offer to wax 
the floors. most of the guards leave, so they won't be in the way. 
inmate michael rodriquez tells guards he's assigned to pick up trash. 
in fact, he is the lookout. the events of december 13th fit together 
like a puzzle. we just didn't put the pieces together fast enough. 
11:30, a guard is coaxed into a warehouse area, where he is hit over 
the head with a pipe. one by one, ten civilian workers and this guard, 
returning from lunch are taken hostage, bound with duct tape, pillow 
cases placed over their heads. they broke my nose, separated my shoulder. 
put a knife to my throat. you're either gonna fight back or die, one 
way or the other. i'm not gonna take this crap. as the findings are 
announced, the guard, alex, explodes. he throws his prison i.d. at 
officials and vows not to be scapegoat. i'm not taking a bullet for 
anybody. they knew they were going to kill us. and they had all the 
opportunity. i'm not getting in the way of any inmates. the report 
says another employee noticed the inmates were alone in the shop, 
but did nothing. and when the hostages manage to free themselves and 
pull a fire alarm, guards did nothing. disturbing details for jayne 
hawkins, who says her son would be alive today if the texas prison 
had done its job. the staff's attitude reflects their leadership. 
and the indians are only as good as the chief. police say officer 
aubrey hawkins was executed by the texas seven, during a christmas 
eve robbery. if i were looking at those criminals who did this to 
my child, i would look at you the same way because you are as fault 
as they are. prison officials insist staffinr in this escape, even 
though the prison was short 22 officers that day. the guards union 
says the escape didn't have to happen. i feel that if they would have 
had the adequate staffing, they would have had the eyes and ears they 
needed to stop this. olson says morale is at an all-time low. the 
average pay for a texas prison guard about $26,000 or $12.50 an hour. 
the guards say it's not much for men and women who put their lives 
on the line everyday. shellee smith, nbc news, austin. the texas criminal 
justice director said what happened at connally was a tragic but one-time 
event, not a systemic problem. and he said the prison system is secure.