in texas today, state officials said that in the wake of the great 
escape a month ago, several prison guards may lose their jobs. the 
seven members of the connelly gang, so named for the congressionally 
prison from which they escaped, are still on the loose. today the 
department of criminal justice released its report on the escape. 
there were several missed opportunities to catch the men in the process. 
a prison guard walked into the maintenance shop the inmates had taken 
over and didn't notice anything wrong. prison guards who were taken 
hostage managed to pull a fire alarm but no one investigated. et cetera 
let's take "a closer look." here's abc's mike von fremd. there was 
furious finger pointing because of the escape. one of the guards, 
alejandro marroquin stormed out of the news conference. he was held 
hostage by escapees and says the report ruined his reputation. they 
are making us look bad. now i can't go look for a job anywhere, because 
they will say, "he was part of the connelly seven." the mother of 
the police officer who was allegedly slain by the escapees says the 
blame goes much higher than the guards. they are certainly accountable, 
but so are you and so is the governor. it starts at the top. prison 
officials admit they were ultimately outsmarted by one of the most 
clever gang leaders in texas history -- george rivas, who was serving 
17 life sentences. this store clerk was held hostage by rivas on christmas 
eve. what is it like looking into george rivas' eyes? it was terrifng 
to look at him. i don't know if it was because he had a gun, or it 
was just because he controlled whether i was going to live or die 
that day. he wants to keep his identity a secret because he remembers 
what george rivas said to him. be calm and do what we say and no one 
is going to die. but if we have to shoot one person, everyone is going 
to die. while the clerk was being held hostage, he heard shooting 
outside. it was officer aubrey hawkins being killed. i had my eyes 
closed with my head against the wall. they had just left. i was just 
praying to god that they wouldn't come back in when we heard the gunshots. 
during the robbery the gang members called rivas "hefe" -- spanish 
for boss. dr. richard coons was rivas' court-appointed psychiatrist. 
george has charisma. george is a leader. he is methodical. he is a 
manipulator. when rivas we inside the sporting goods store, he passed 
himself off as a security guard. he said, "i need all of the employees 
to look at these photos of someone who has been shoplifting. and the 
sporting good employees fell for it. i think he was very cunning and 
very, very precise. he knew exactly what he was doing. he is not just 
a normal criminal. a difficult criminal who's now been on the run 
for 30 days. mike von fremd, abc news, dallas.