Yemenis probing the attack on the USS Cole have put a number of questions 
about the ship's security to U.S. investigators, a weekly Yemeni military 
newspaper reported. The paper, 26 September, which hit newsstands 
in Aden late Thursday, did not say when the Yemenis made their request. 
Last month, the United States and Yemen signed an agreement calling 
for closer cooperation between U.S. and Yemeni investigators. The 
accord was hammered out after Yemen initially balked at allowing the 
Americans much access to Yemeni suspects in the Cole bombing, saying 
it was a matter of sovereignty. U.S. and Yemeni officials could not 
immediately be reached for comment on the 26 September report. The 
newspaper said the Yemenis were particularly curious about a peddler 
believed to be an American they say was allowed to board the Cole 
while it was stopped in the Suez Canal en route to Yemen's Aden harbor. 
Yemeni authorities wanted details of conversations the man had with 
sailors aboard, what the sailors bought from him, any questions he 
asked sailors while aboard and precisely where on the ship he was 
allowed, said the paper, which did not identify its sources. The report 
said that peddler was a ``clown'' who ``behaved like the English comic 
actor Charlie Chaplin.'' It was the first report of an outsider being 
allowed on the Cole before the explosion, and could raise further 
questions about U.S. security. The Cole, refueling in Aden on the 
way to the Gulf to support the U.N. embargo against Iraq, was attacked 
Oct. 12 by a small boat that maneuvered alongside the destroyer and 
detonated a load of explosives. The blast killed the two bombers as 
well as 17 U.S. sailors. The attack prompted an internal U.S. Navy 
inquiry on whether any Americans should be held responsible for security 
lapses. That review has been completed but not made public, while 
a separate inquiry seeking to draw lessons from what happened to the 
Cole concluded the U.S. military must take more aggressive precautions 
against terrorists. Yemeni officials have said they are preparing 
to try at least eight Yemenis detained on suspicion of helping plot 
the attack and that they continue to pursue other suspects. No trial 
date has been set, but Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Iryani said last 
month that he expected it would be held in the last half of January. 
During the past week, additional security forces have been arriving 
in Aden, where the trial is expected to be held, sources close to 
the investigation have told The Associated Press. A high-level security 
meeting was planned for Saturday in the capital, San'a, according 
to the sources. Some of the questions 26 September said had been put 
to the Americans appeared to be part of the attempt to build cases 
against Yemeni suspects for the upcoming trial. 26 September said 
the Yemeni investigators also asked: _how many people knew about the 
Cole's route and who told them; _whether any abnormal telephone calls 
were received aboard the ship during the Cole's journey from the Suez 
Canal to Aden's harbor; _what was found at the Cole blast site after 
the U.S. destroyer was towed out of Aden's harbor; and _for details 
from U.S. explosives experts on the bomb materials and quantity, as 
well as results of lab tests on materials and samples sent to the 
United States. The paper also quoted Deputy Interior Minister Motahar 
Rashad al-Masri as saying authorities still were looking for three 
people in connection with the bombing. Among them was Mohammed Omar 
al-Harazi, who earlier reports said issued orders to Cole plotters 
in Yemen by telephone from the United Arab Emirates. The newspapers 
gave no details on the other two being sought. Al-Masri also confirmed 
that five people have been arrested in connection with explosions 
Jan. 1-2 in Aden. Blasts went off at an Anglican church compound, 
near the official Yemeni news agency, at a hotel and along two major 
roads. Only one injury, reportedly minor, resulted from the blasts. 
Three of the five suspects have provided detailed confessions of their 
involvement, al-Masri was quoted as saying. There has been speculation 
in Yemen the small bombings were part of an attempt to disrupt preparations 
for the Cole trial.