Bowing to a vast popular revolt against him, a pale Slobodan Milosevic 
resigned Friday night as Yugoslavia's president, ending 13 years of 
rule that have brought his country four wars, international isolation, 
a NATO bombing campaign and his own indictment on war crimes charges. 
Vojislav Kostunica, a 56-year-old constitutional lawyer of quiet habits 
and a firm belief in a future for Yugoslavia as a normal country within 
Europe, is expected to be inaugurated Saturday. An already exuberant 
and chaotic Belgrade, celebrating its extraordinary day of revolution 
on Thursday, exploded with noise as the news of Milosevic's resignation, 
made in a short speech on television, quickly spread. Cars blasted 
their horns; people banged on pots and pans from balconies, blew whistles 
and danced in the street. Milosevic appeared on television at about 
11:20 p.m. _ shortly after Kostunica announced, on a television phone-in 
program, that he had met Milosevic and the army chief of staff, Gen. 
Nebojsa Pavkovic, Friday evening, and that both had congratulated 
him on his election victory on Sept. 24. The resignation deal was 
helped along by Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov of Russia, who met with 
Kostunica and Milosevic Friday. Ivanov was carrying assurances that 
if Milosevic gave up power now, the world would not press for his 
extradition to face war crimes charges in The Hague, Netherlands, 
senior Western officials said Friday night. ``I've just received official 
information that Vojislav Kostunica won the elections,'' Milosevic 
said in his television address. ``This decision was made by the body 
that was authorized to do so under the constitution, and I consider 
that it has to be respected.'' Milosevic spoke with a straight face 
after an extraordinary set of manipulations on his part _ of the Federal 
Election Commission and the highest court in the land _ to deny Kostunica 
outright victory. Speaking of how important it was for political parties 
to strengthen themselves in opposition, Milosevic said he intended 
to continue as leader of the Socialist Party of Serbia after taking 
a break ``to spend more time with my family, especially my grandson, 
Marko.'' Despite his brave words, it is unlikely that the Socialist 
Party, with its own future to consider, will keep Milosevic as its 
leader for long. The remarks seemed part of a deal to save him a little 
bit of face. There is deep resentment in this semi-reformed communist 
party _ Serbia's largest and best organized, which has been in power 
since World War II _ of Milosevic's indulgence of his wife, Mirjana 
Markovic, who began her own party, the Yugoslav United Left, called 
JUL. Ruling in coalition, the Socialists saw more and more of their 
positions, powers and benefits going to JUL. The reaction in Belgrade 
was immediate and loud. Tanja Radovic, a 23-year-old student blowing 
her whistle furiously on Knez Mihailova Street, said: ``He's gone. 
It's finally true. We had too much of him, it's enough. This is the 
end of him and all these thieves.'' Dragana Kovac, 31, said: ``I'm 
happy, and not just because of him, but because of her. He should 
have spent more time with his family starting 10 years ago.'' Ilija 
Bobic said: ``I wish all my family were alive to see this. My father 
used to say that the Communists would finish quickly. He was wrong, 
but it came true, finally.'' Bobic stopped, then said: ``We all know 
it won't be better quickly here. But now you can talk. You're not 
afraid of the phone, of being an enemy inside, of having to join the 
party to have a job.'' The United States and Europe have promised 
a quick lifting of international sanctions against Yugoslavia, as 
well as aid, once Milosevic goes. The sanctions include a toothless 
oil embargo and a flight ban, currently suspended. But financial sanctions 
and a visa ban aimed at the Milosevic regime are likely to remain 
in place for now.