This is The World, a co-production of the BBC World Service, PRI, 
and WGBH in Boston. I am Lisa Mullins. A plan was announced today 
to raise the Russian nuclear submarine 'Kursk', next summer, almost 
a year after it hit the bottom of the Barents Sea following a mysterious 
accident. The Kursk Foundation, an international consortium led by 
the governments of Russia and The Netherlands says it can do the job 
safely if it can secure the funding. The BBC's James Rogers was in 
Brussels for today's announcement. He says there are two main reasons 
for raising the Kursk. Obviously the first one is to recover the bodies 
that remain. There are still the bodies of more than 100 sailors trapped 
in the vessel since it sank in the Barents Sea in August of last year. 
Secondly, there is a longer-term threat and that's an environmental 
threat. The Kursk Foundation says that the nuclear reactors, there 
are two on board, are safe for the time being but that the corrosive 
effects of seawater could in time lead to radioactive leaks into the 
ocean, which obviously could have devastating consequences on the 
fishery and the environment in general. That's the danger of leaving 
it down there. I would think there are risks of bringing it up as 
well. I mean this is a huge submarine. That's right. The size of these 
things is really very surprising. In fact one of these Russian nuclear 
submarines is about the length of one and a half football fields. 
Now, it's lying in something over 300 feet of water. So if you can 
just visualize it being turned on its end, it would stick out of the 
sea about 200 feet. It is a huge submarine and nobody is pretending 
that this, if it goes ahead, is going to be an easy operation. There 
are any number of complications, one of which is that as part of the 
submarine is stuck in sand and clay on the seabed. So that's going 
to give resistance once they do try to lift it. Second problem, as 
I have already mentioned, two nuclear reactors on board. They are 
not going to be able to attach any lifting gear to any parts of the 
vessel nearby the nuclear reactors for fear of provoking an accident. 
So it is going to be extremely difficult. We had heard a few months 
ago about some theories on how the submarine could be raised. One 
of them was using balloons. Is that what the foundation itself plans 
on doing? That's not what they are proposing. Their rescue attempt 
involves three vessels essentially. One is a diving ship with two 
diving bells. The second is a huge platform with very large cranes 
on it, perhaps a platform of the type more usually used for oil and 
gas exploration. And a third vessel involved is what the rescuers 
describe as a giant offshore barge and the plan is to lift the submarine 
off the seabed, attach it to the underneath of this barge and then 
take it to the Russian naval port of Mamansk. How much is it going 
to cost and where is the money coming from? Well, that's one of the 
problems that they are facing so far. The Kursk Foundation today were 
mentioning a figure of 70 million dollars. They have already presented 
their rescue plans to the European Union. They are hoping to get some 
funding from them. But they are going to be looking for worldwide 
funding because as they see it, the potential environmental consequences 
make this an international problem requiring an international solution. 
It might be worth reiterating that the Kursk was such a prestigious 
submarine and really held a high position in terms of the Russian 
Navy. So this is something that Russians themselves are still dealing 
with even now. Very much so because obviously we have read a lot in 
the last few years about how many parts of the Russian Naval fleet 
is essentially rotting and is poorly maintained. The Kursk certainly 
wasn't part of that. It was only launched in the 1990s and to a great 
extent was the pride of the Russian submarine fleet. So it was a great 
sense of shock when this went down. It was also for men in the Russian 
Navy it was a great source of pride to serve in the submarine fleet, 
and then of course you have the feelings of the relatives to take 
into account. There are still more than 100 bodies which haven't been 
recovered, so at least raising the vessel and being able to return 
the bodies of the dead sailors to their loved ones might go some small 
way towards redressing their grief. The BBC's James Rogers speaking 
to us from Brussels. Thank you for the update James. Thanks very much. 
My pleasure.