If winning a rematch of last year's Colonial Classic final is any 
indication, Andre Agassi is ready to defend his Australian Open title. 
In a match with some brilliant shotmaking, Agassi stopped Yevgeny 
Kafelnikov 6-3, 3-6, 6-3 on Saturday in a battle that featured the 
two men who played for the Australian Open title a year ago. After 
a year in which he battled injuries, Agassi was satisfied with the 
victory. ``I feel good about the way I'm moving, the way I'm striking 
the ball, and I still feel I can get a lot better,'' Agassi said. 
The Open starts Monday, with Agassi seeded sixth and Kafelnikov fifth, 
behind Gustavo Kuerten, Marat Safin, Pete Sampras and Magnus Norman. 
When Agassi beat Kafelnikov in last year's final, it capped a sizzling 
streak in which he also won the U.S. and French Opens and was runner-up 
to Sampras at Wimbledon. Then a fall on court at Queens and an automobile 
accident took him out of much of the summer. The 30-year-old former 
No. 1 broke Kafelnikov in Saturday's sixth game with a display of 
control tennis, but then was broken in the second game of the second 
set when the Russian forced him into some errors. Agassi needed two 
consecutive points with shots that hit the lines to break again in 
the final set's fourth game. Kafelnikov broke right back with some 
spectacular serve returns, but then faltered while trailing 4-3. He 
double-faulted and missed two groundstrokes before Agassi sealed his 
decisive service break with a forehand blast that Kafelnikov couldn't 
handle. Agassi then served out the 1-hour, 20-minute match, finishing 
with a backhand crosscourt winner deep in the corner. ``When we're 
both making our shots, it's pretty explosive tennis,'' he said. ``There 
were still a few loose points that cost me a couple of service breaks,'' 
he added. Agassi, who opens against Czech player Jiri Vanek, is in 
the same quarter of the Open draw with Sampras. ``The quarterfinals 
are a long way off. If it was to come down to Pete in the quarters, 
I always contend it is better to play Pete in the quarters or semis 
than it is in the final,'' Agassi said. He beat Sampras in a dramatic 
semifinal last year. Sampras also played in the Colonial, losing to 
Juan Carlos Ferrero and Patrick Rafter before beating Nicolas Kiefer. 
Kafelnikov said his match with Agassi came down to a few points, and 
``it is a good sign that I had three good matches with tough opponents 
so I can carry on that kind of confidence.'' ``We both like to dictate 
the game, and if we are on the top of our form it is very hard to 
beat us,'' Kafelnikov said. Kafelnikov reached the final with victories 
over Rafter and Ferrero. Agassi needed three sets for all his victories, 
winning earlier matches against Kiefer and Nicolas Escude. ``I'm probably 
at 75 percent of my full capability,'' said Kafelnikov, who plays 
Germany's Jens Knippschild in the Open. ``I'm going to work a little 
on my serve.'' Ferrero beat Escude 6-3, 7-5 in the third-place match 
at the Colonial.