Just after Martina Hingis put the final touches on her No. 1 ranking 
in November, a cell phone began to ring with the faint sound of a 
mosquito as she sat down for interviews. ``Hope that's not mine,'' 
she said before reaching into her purse and fishing out the phone. 
Hingis glanced at the caller's number, flashed a devilish smile and 
quipped, ``Just some admirer.'' In an instant, Hingis revealed some 
of the traits that had guided her to the No. 1 spot for the third 
time in four years: Given almost every situation, she possesses a 
quick, clever and confident return. While Hingis wasn't equipped with 
the lumberjack strength of her peers, and had to pile up computer 
points instead of major titles, she was able to hold off the powerful 
Lindsay Davenport, Venus Williams and Serena Williams by leaning on 
her stamina and savvy. To Hingis, her No. 1 ranking wasn't hollow 
at all. It was well-earned. To others, Venus Williams was the supreme 
player in women's tennis last year after she won Wimbledon, then took 
the U. S. Open as an encore. But what about this year? Once the first 
major tournament of the 2001 season begins in Melbourne on Monday 
with the start of the Australian Open, several questions about the 
women's field will be in the air: _ Has the top-seeded Hingis begun 
to decode the Williams sisters, both of whom she may have to defeat 
to reach the final? _ Can Venus Williams, visibly tense last week, 
cope with expectations stemming from her success last year and the 
record-breaking $40 million Reebok deal she recently signed? _ Will 
Serena Williams be motivated to play catch-up after watching her older 
sister capture all the attention? _ Can Davenport stealthily slip 
in and pick up her second Australian Open title in two years? Hingis 
won this championship in 1999, and it was her last major title. After 
a productive off-season, she will step onto this perilously fast surface 
with a sharper net game, a more refined strategy for defusing the 
top players and some early success. Hingis and her new doubles partner, 
Monica Seles, ended the 22-match winning streak by the Williams sisters 
at a tuneup event in Sydney. And Saturday, Hingis squeezed past Davenport 
for the singles title in Sydney. At any moment, Elena Dementieva or 
Kim Clijsters could pose a threat to the top names at the Australian 
Open, but for now, the same intrigue involving Hingis, Davenport and 
the Williams sisters is expected to pick up where it left off last 
year. The men are in much the same position. In 2000, the next wave 
finally came to a crest when the 24-year-old Gustavo Kuerten of Brazil 
ended the season embracing his mother after becoming the first South 
American to gain the No. 1 ranking. In the final event, the waifish 
Kuerten, with his wild locks cropped, completed an improbable takeover 
of Marat Safin of Russia with a run that included victories over Pete 
Sampras and Andre Agassi in the season-ending Masters Cup. To a degree, 
Kuerten and Safin demystified Sampras and Agassi last year. This year, 
some of the same issues will surface: Have Sampras and Agassi been 
passed by the youth movement? Can Safin and Kuerten emerge as consistent 
winners? Will the men develop players with the kind of star power 
that has given the women's game such visibility? Saturday, one low-key 
legend and happy newlywed was at work. On the court inside Rod Laver 
Arena, Sampras was spotted practicing with the vigor of a great champion 
not ready to fade away just yet. ``He doesn't say anything, but as 
a competitor, it couldn't not bother him,'' Sampras' coach, Paul Annacone, 
said, referring to those who believe the 29-year-old Sampras has been 
overtaken. ``He did well in three of four Grand Slams. But because 
he's so laid-back, he doesn't capture the imagination of the public 
as an entertainer. That's the way he wants to live his life. ``This 
year, he's in better shape, seems happier in his life. Otherwise, 
he's the same.'' Just a year older. While Sampras focuses on the majors, 
wanting to add to his Grand Slam legacy, the hungry young players, 
like Safin, Kuerten, Magnus Norman and Lleyton Hewitt, will try to 
use the Australian Open to jump-start their races to No. 1. It is 
not certain where Agassi fits in the scene. After winning the Australian 
Open last year, he failed to win another tournament in 2000. By the 
time he exited in the second round of the U. S. Open, his body had 
been worn down by a rugged schedule, and his spirits were threadbare 
after finding out his mother and sister had breast cancer. The top 
women are young and well-established. Over the past three years, the 
back-and-forth among Hingis, Davenport and the Williams sisters has 
provided riveting matches on the court and a fascinating clash of 
personalities away from it. As the season unfolded last year, it was 
clear that Hingis and Davenport were aligned to challenge the dominance 
of the Williams sisters. As invincible as Venus Williams seemed, she 
didn't have a realistic shot at No. 1 because she and her sister took 
off chunks of time because of injuries and their commitment to attend 
fashion design school. Until the past two weeks, neither third-seeded 
Venus nor sixth-seeded Serena Williams had played competitive tennis 
since October. If they are rusty, the chances for an Australian Open 
final between Hingis and the second-seeded Davenport could increase 
dramatically. ``I'm looking forward to this,'' Hingis said when she 
arrived in Australia. ``The other players have physical abilities, 
but I have other weapons.''