Nine years ago, then-Missouri Gov. John Ashcroft had enough support 
in the Legislature to pass a ban on most abortions, but young Democratic 
House member Ronnie White outmaneuvered him and killed the measure. 
The clash was the start of a contentious relationship that crested 
in 1999 when Ashcroft succeeded in persuading the Senate to keep White, 
now a Missouri Supreme Court judge, off the federal bench. Now it's 
White's turn. As the star witness at Ashcroft's confirmation hearing 
that begins Tuesday, he will help determine whether Ashcroft becomes 
U.S. attorney general. White was the first judicial nominee since 
conservative jurist Robert Bork in 1987 to suffer defeat on the floor 
of the U.S. Senate. Ashcroft insisted the judge was ``pro-criminal.'' 
Because the judge is black, critics accused Ashcroft of racism, a 
charge that has resurfaced since he was nominated by President-elect 
Bush on Dec. 22. The NAACP and other minority groups are ardently 
opposing his nomination. Ashcroft's allies counter that he has a lengthy 
record of support for minority nominees, both as governor, when Ashcroft 
named eight blacks to the state bench, and in the Senate, where he 
voted for 26 of 28 minority nominees. In 1992, while governor, Ashcroft 
had a promise from Democratic leaders in the Missouri Legislature 
to give his abortion bill a fair hearing. He had a one-vote majority 
on the House Criminal and Civil Justice Committee, chaired by White. 
But when members assembled for what was to be a no-vote work session 
_ and with two abortion foes absent _ White unexpectedly allowed a 
vote. The measure failed, 8-7, remaining dead even after White allowed 
a no-show to weigh in, making the vote 8-8. Ashcroft was upset, recalled 
state Rep. Quincy Troupe, an ally of White's from St. Louis. ``I think 
he was insulted that Ronnie White outsmarted him,'' Troupe said. Troupe 
believes Ashcroft sought revenge when White was nominated to the federal 
bench, but Rich McClure, Ashcroft's former chief of staff, said the 
senator's opposition had nothing to do with the abortion bill. ``I 
have no doubt that he did not even remember Judge White's handling 
of an abortion bill when he was considering his judgeship,'' McClure 
said. ``Senator Ashcroft did what was right, in his view.'' Ashcroft's 
objections were muted in 1997 when President Clinton nominated White 
to a judgeship in the Eastern District of Missouri in St. Louis, through 
renomination and two confirmation hearings. Then, in August 1999, 
after the Judiciary Committee had given White a second thumbs-up, 
Ashcroft turned up the heat. White was soft on crime, even ``pro-criminal,'' 
Ashcroft said, because the judge voted 14 times to reverse the death 
penalty _ more than one-quarter of the first-degree murder cases that 
came before him. While Ashcroft mentioned abortion during White's 
confirmation hearings, his reference to their Statehouse dispute was 
obscure. Some ``were injured by the nominee's manipulation of legislative 
procedures,'' Ashcroft said, and White's ``failure to be evenhanded'' 
contributed to Ashcroft's vote against him. The emergence of the law-and-order 
issue with White coincided with Ashcroft's efforts to portray his 
re-election challenger, Democratic Gov. Mel Carnahan, as an ineffective 
crime-fighter. Ashcroft's aides eventually turned up a compelling 
story in the case against White _ and Carnahan, who had appointed 
White in 1994 to the Missouri Court of Appeals and in 1995 to the 
state's high court. White offered the lone dissent when fellow jurists 
upheld the sentence of James Johnson, who had killed three law officers 
and a county sheriff's wife. The sheriff, Kenny Jones, dove into the 
controversy and circulated a petition at a Missouri Sheriffs Association 
convention. White's nomination ``was a slap in the face,'' Jones said 
in an interview. He also may testify at Ashcroft's confirmation hearing. 
With the sheriffs and the Missouri Federation of Police on his side, 
Ashcroft told his colleagues, ``When the law enforcement community 
raises a red flag about a judicial nomination, as they did in this 
case, the Senate should listen.'' In the uproar over White's defeat, 
new details emerged. First, it was Ashcroft who courted opposition 
from law enforcement groups, not the other way around. He sought help 
from the police federation and the larger Missouri Police Chiefs Association, 
which declined to get involved. Next, White's defenders did their 
own analysis and concluded he voted to reverse death sentences only 
slightly more often than his six colleagues, five of whom were appointed 
by Ashcroft. White had harsh words for Ashcroft on the only occasion 
he has discussed his scuttled appointment. In September, during the 
senator's re-election campaign, White said at a Missouri Bar Association 
forum: ``The person who led the opposition to my nomination had the 
most corrosive and vicious attacks for minority nominees.'' Ashcroft's 
campaign responded that Carnahan ``and his liberal judge'' had opened 
``the shameful race-baiting phase of the Carnahan campaign.'' Carnahan 
died in a plane crash Oct. 16, but voters still chose him over Ashcroft. 
Carnahan's widow, Jean Carnahan, was appointed to fill the Senate 
seat.