Welcome to this hour of VOA News Now. I'm Tod Grosance in Washington. 
As you just heard in the news, a major earthquake has killed at least 
63 people and injured scores in Mexico and Central America. I talked 
with VOA's Greg Flakus in Mexico City, who describes the extent of 
the damage. The worst part was in El Salvador where landslides appear 
to have taken most of the victims. In an area west of the capital 
of San Salvador there were anywhere from 200 to 400 houses buried 
by a landslide. But they have been pulling bodies out of there and 
rescue workers are working frantically with sticks and whatever else 
they can find to clod the dirt to find people. How densely populated 
are the areas? And this is quite a widespread area apparently. How 
densely populated? Well, San Salvador is a city that's barely densely 
populated especially in the outer areas around the city in these residential 
areas. And many times they are built... this is a mountainous country 
and many times these residential areas are built right below hillsides 
or in ravines, where they are very much susceptible. In this case 
I talked to a fellow in El Salvador who works for The Los Angeles 
Times, Alex Ronderos. He was on the scene there and he said deforestation 
was one of their problems. It's like a mountain now. It's totally 
deforested and that's the problem, that's why there was no way to, 
how can I say, to happen like that, to have trees like forming a barricade 
to prevent the dirt coming down. So once again we have a natural disaster 
that is to some extent also a human disaster in that building in places 
that are inappropriate or dangerous has contributed to the disaster. 
Well, I was going to ask you, the authorities, do they build these 
structures with possible earthquakes or disasters like this in mind? 
Well, the larger buildings have certainly in the cities... are built 
with that in mind. Engineers and architects are very much aware of 
the fact they are in an area that's susceptible to earthquakes. But 
many of the humbler homes and even some of the middle class homes 
are put up, sometimes they cut corners and they don't build them with 
enough protection and so that could be a problem. But in a case like 
this where you have a landslide fall down on top of the houses, there's 
really not much that can be done in terms of building the homes to 
withstand that. How equipped are the authorities in handling something 
like this, Greg? Well, based on my past experience in 1986 I was in 
El Salvador when there was an earthquake and it was a major quake 
in which large buildings downtown collapsed and there were hundreds 
of people trapped. And I saw a lot of coordinated efforts on the part 
of the army, the police, the Red Cross, hospitals, in fact some of 
the hospitals were damaged and they had to have people outside in 
tents to take care of them and they cooperated and worked pretty well. 
As I say this whole region is prone to earthquakes and so people have 
already ideas in mind of what they need to do. Well, as far as assistance 
to some of these people that are going to be homeless obviously, are 
they going to be capable of providing shelter for these people? Well, 
that's of course going to be a real challenge and the President of 
El Salvador, Francisco Florez has already declared a state of emergency 
and he is calling for international aid. And I am sure that there 
will be help coming in from the United States, Europe, Canada, Mexico, 
other countries, as has always happened in the past in situations 
like this. You said buildings swayed as far away as Mexico City. Did 
you feel anything? No, I didn't personally, but I talked to some people 
here in Mexico who did feel it. We were quite a ways away from the 
epicenter. But you know there are parts of this city where you have 
large buildings and where the structure underneath the ground is looser 
and you can feel it more if you're up in a say, tenth floor or twelfth 
floor of a building and it sways. You can feel it more than I would 
here, I am sort of on the slope of the mountain. Any aftershocks yet, 
Greg? I didn't hear of any from anyone there although well, there 
actually was I guess one, there were actually two shakes there. There 
was one right around the same time as the first quake, so I guess 
you could call that an aftershock. But typically in a situation like 
this you have many, many small aftershocks, some which don't register 
very high, but there's also the possibility that in the coming hours 
there could be another stronger aftershock. That often happens after 
earthquakes and so that can be especially dangerous because if you 
have rescue workers and people crawling in trying to find victims, 
they could themselves be put at risk if there was another quake. That's 
Greg Flakus. He is our VOA's Mexico City correspondent.