A major earthquake shook Central America on Saturday, unleashing a 
landslide that buried hundreds of houses near San Salvador and causing 
major damage across the country. About 1,200 people are believed to 
be missing in the buried Las Colinas neighborhood just west of the 
capital, according to Red Cross spokesman Carlos Lopez Medina, who 
said 61 people were known to be dead across the country. The national 
police said it estimated the death toll at near 100. Salvadoran President 
Francisco Flores declared a national emergency and appealed for international 
aid, especially for experts at searching for buried victims. The 7.6-magnitude 
quake centered off El Salvador's southern coast also rocked Honduras 
and Guatemala, where two deaths were reported. Buildings swayed in 
Mexico City, about 600 miles to the northwest. Hundreds of rescuers 
frantically ripped at the earth with sticks and bare hands to reach 
those buried in the middle class Las Colinas area, where a 1,500-foot 
landslide carried away houses, cars and trees. A distraught Arturo 
Magana, 25, wandered about trying to find his 18-year-old brother, 
Jaime: ``I don't know where to dig because I don't know where the 
house is,'' he said. ``This is terrible. I don't think we will be 
able to pull out any victims; everything has been buried,'' said David 
Lara, a rescue worker struggling at the mass of dirt and concrete 
with a shovel. Lopez estimated that 300 houses had been destroyed 
in Las Colinas. The wall of a hospital collapsed in the southeastern 
town of San Miguel and 25 people were known to be dead in a small 
village nearby. ``There is my boy! Help me! Help me!'' wailed Carmen 
de Marin, a 41-year-old woman weeping beside the buried ruins of her 
house there. She said her 12-year-old son Jaime Ernesto Marin had 
stayed home to await a phone call from his father in the United States 
when she went out shopping shortly before the quake hit at about 11:35 
a.m. By night, 20 bodies had been recovered at Las Colinas. No survivors 
had yet been found. News of the damage was slowed by the fact much 
of El Salvador's telephone service and electricity was knocked out 
by the quake for several hours. Only sketchy reports had arrived from 
many hard-hit areas. In Santa Ana, about 35 miles northwest of the 
capital, the 116-year-old El Calvario church collapsed, killing at 
least one employee and possibly others worshipping inside, according 
to the Rev. Robert Castro. ``The church is generally empty then, most 
everyone had already come and gone,'' said Castro, 46. ``We can only 
hope now that there weren't people inside.'' The Red Cross reported 
that 13 people died in nearby Sosonati. Some 200 other victims were 
rushed to the area hospital, which authorities weren't sure was still 
structurally sound. The quake was centered off the Salvadoran coast, 
about 65 miles southwest of San Miguel, according to the U.S. Geological 
Survey in Denver, Colo. It took more than an hour for some San Salvador 
radio stations to return to the air and telephone service remained 
spotty at mid-afternoon. There were cracked buildings and shattered 
windows across the city of 500,000. Officials at San Salvador's international 
airport said all flights had been halted. Most businesses in the city 
also were closed _ though in a surreal touch, acrobats and dancers 
from a touring circus marched through the streets past frightened 
people, using a loudspeaker to promote a coming performance. Police 
in neighboring Guatemala said a man and a 2-year-old girl were killed 
and three other people were injured when a pair of homes collapsed 
in the city of Jalpataua. Local radio stations reported the collapse 
of a church in Suchitepequez, in southern Guatemala. The quake set 
off car alarms and temporarily knocked out electricity, radio, television 
and cellular phone service all over Guatemala, but most service was 
quickly restored. Honduran officials reported cracked buildings in 
several cities, but there were no reports of injuries. A 1986 earthquake 
centered near San Salvador killed an estimated 1,500 people and injured 
8,000.