Jelena Dokic, upset about the way her family has been treated in Australia, 
will play instead for her native Yugoslavia in the Australian Open. 
The switch came as Dokic's outspoken father, Damir, complained for 
the second year in a row that the Australian Open draw is rigged against 
his daughter. She must face defending champion Lindsay Davenport in 
the first round Monday. The 17-year-old Dokic, Australia's top player, 
is unhappy with the way her family has been portrayed by the media 
in her adopted country. Tournament officials confirmed Sunday that 
she asked to play for Yugoslavia rather than Australia on the WTA 
Tour this year. ``We will accept this and amend the Australian Open 
2001 draw according,'' said Geoff Pollard, Tennis Australia president. 
``It's a sad situation, but we're focused on running the Australian 
Open for the next two weeks.'' Damir Dokic questioned the computer 
draw that gave his daughter such a tough opening match. ``The draw 
is fixed just for her,'' he told the Sun-Herald of Sydney. ``If it 
is not, the country should protect its own player. ... She feels that 
no one here likes her.'' Damir Dokic was expelled from last year's 
Wimbledon and U.S. Open, and he has been banned by the WTA Tour until 
March because of a series of outbursts. Pollard dismissed Dokic's 
allegation regarding the draw. ``That's just the way it came out,'' 
Pollard said. ``The draw was done publicly in front of players and 
media. He should know that all draws are done the same way. It's the 
luck of the draw _ you get good draws, you get bad draws. She has 
had good ones and bad ones before.'' Dokic said she plans to move 
from Sydney to Florida and feels betrayed by Australia. ``If anybody 
has been attacked the way I am in the media, they would feel the same 
way,'' she told the Sun-Herald. ``I am playing under the Yugoslavian 
flag, not for Australia.'' Dokic received a Yugoslav passport in November 
after traveling on an Australian passport for four years. She and 
her family left Yugoslavia six years ago.