Rescuers using sticks and their bare hands dug for survivors in buried 
homes after a powerful earthquake struck El Salvador and Guatemala, 
killing at least 81 people and leaving hundreds more missing. About 
1,200 people were unaccounted for in the buried Las Colinas neighborhood 
just west of El Salvador's capital and at least 79 people are known 
to be dead across the country, a National Emergency Committee announced. 
Two people died in Guatemala. Police and rescuers in El Salvador put 
the toll from Saturday's 7.6-magnitude quake at a slightly higher 
figure of around 100 confirmed dead and said they feared the number 
could rise as excavations continued. ``It was like a wave of dirt 
that covered us,'' said Emilio Renderos, 60, a watchman employed in 
Las Colinas. ``It was horrible.'' Rescuers fought to pry into the 
1,500-foot landslide that had buried an estimated 300 homes in the 
middle-class neighborhood. By night, 20 bodies had been recovered 
at Las Colinas. No survivors had yet been found in the mass of dirt 
and concrete. The quake shattered buildings in several cities in this 
Central American nation of 6 million. Smaller aftershocks were felt 
in San Salvador late Saturday, but there was no immediate information 
on their magnitude. Centered off El Salvador's southern coast, the 
temblor also rocked Honduras and Guatemala. Buildings swayed as far 
away as Mexico City. Salvadoran President Francisco Flores declared 
a national emergency and appealed for international help to search 
for survivors. A distraught Arturo Magana, 25, wandered about in Las 
Colinas, trying to find his 18-year-old brother, Jaime. ``I don't 
know where to dig because I don't know where the house is,'' he said. 
In the southeastern town of San Miguel, the wall of a hospital collapsed 
and 25 people were known to be dead in a small village nearby. The 
U.S. Agency for International Development said it had three people 
in El Salvador before the quake and that five more were en route. 
As soon a suitable airport is open, the agency plans to send a planeload 
of relief supplies, including medical kits, blankets and plastic sheeting, 
from a stockpile in Miami. The quake knocked out El Salvador's telephone 
service and electricity for several hours, impeding the spread of 
news. Only sketchy reports had arrived from many hard-hit areas. In 
Santa Ana, about 35 miles northwest of the capital, the 116-year-old 
El Calvario church collapsed, killing at least one employee and possibly 
others worshipping inside, according to the Rev. Robert Castro. The 
Red Cross reported that 13 people died in nearby Sosonati. Some 200 
other victims were rushed to the area hospital, which authorities 
weren't sure was still structurally sound. The quake was centered 
off the Salvadoran coast, about 65 miles southwest of San Miguel, 
according to the U.S. Geological Survey in Denver, Colo. It took more 
than an hour for some San Salvador radio stations to return to the 
air and telephone service remained spotty at mid-afternoon. There 
were cracked buildings and shattered windows across the city of 500,000. 
Officials at San Salvador's international airport said all flights 
had been canceled Police in neighboring Guatemala said a man and a 
2-year-old girl were killed and three other people were injured when 
a pair of homes collapsed in the city of Jalpataua. Local radio stations 
reported the collapse of a church in Suchitepequez, in southern Guatemala. 
The quake set off car alarms and temporarily knocked out electricity, 
radio, television and cellular phone service all over Guatemala, but 
most service was quickly restored. Honduran officials reported cracked 
buildings in several cities, but there were no reports of injuries. 
A 1986 earthquake centered near San Salvador killed an estimated 1,500 
people and injured 8,000.