Trapped in a bathroom, her legs pinned under concrete blocks, a young 
servant named Maria Antonia cried out for her brother and for the 
child she used to care for. Above the tons of dirt covering her, firefighters 
worked furiously to free her, hammering away concrete to create a 
narrow hole and feeding an IV tube through in a desperate rescue effort 
following the earthquake in El Salvador. ``She's calm, but she said 
she can't feel her legs,'' said Jhonny Ramos, a rescue worker who 
descended into the pit to comfort her. The woman, whose first name 
only was known, said she was touching the leg of another servant _ 
who was lying near her, dead. Maria Antonia was one of only three 
survivors found by Sunday morning among the hundreds of homes buried 
by the quake-triggered landslide in the Las Colinas neighborhood of 
Santa Tecla, about six miles west of the Salvadoran capital. The child 
she asked about _ like hundreds more people reported missing _ may 
be buried somewhere beneath. Digging through the rubble to reach her 
took five hours. Amid the massive destruction, it was a tiny victory: 
nearby, corpses, some horribly mangled, were laid out in a yard. Authorities 
said 79 people had been confirmed dead nationwide and another two 
in Guatemala. As many as 1,200 people have been reported missing in 
Las Colinas. Elsewhere in the middle-class neighborhood, Arturo Magana 
shoveled continuously _ even though he wasn't sure exactly where his 
crushed home was located. ``I can't leave. I can't stop. My brother 
is down there,'' he said. Authorities brought in soldiers and bulldozers 
_ but afraid the equipment would crush survivors, some residents preferred 
to keep working by hand. The neighborhood was flattened and buried 
by the Cordillera de Balsamo, the ridge that looms over Las Colinas. 
For years, residents had carved into the hillsides and cut into forests 
to clear building lots. The quake, centered off the country's coast, 
finally tumbled the loosened soil onto the neighborhood below. Reynaldo 
Maradiaga, 35, described how he started to run when the earthquake 
began rocking his home. ``I heard a big roar, and I saw the mountain 
come tumbling down over the houses,'' said Maradiaga. The wave of 
earth stopped three feet from his doorway. Some rescuers, like volunteer 
David Lara, said it would be difficult to find more survivors. ``I 
don't think we're going to get anyone out alive,'' Lara said. Others 
vowed to keep trying. ``I'm not losing hope,'' said Maria Hernandez, 
26, whose aunt and 3-year-old nephew were missing. ``Only God knows 
why this happened. But I'm not giving up. I'm going to get them out 
of here.''