To Rod Laver's eye, tennis was more attractive back when he was becoming 
the only player to win the Grand Slam twice. ``There was more variety 
in the strokes and the rallies that we played,'' Laver said Sunday 
after he helped christen the newest court at the Australian Open. 
When rackets were wooden and he was young, the 62-year-old Laver said, 
``Seems like the drop shot became very important because you just 
couldn't do so much with the rackets.'' which were wood when he started 
out, the 62-year-old Laver said. For recreational tennis players, 
he added, ``it used to be when you had a tiny wooden racket it would 
come back and hit you in the eye. You'd say, `I don't like this game.''' 
Aside from racket technology, ``I get the feeling that the courts 
are quicker, maybe the ball is quicker,'' he said. The 15,000-seat 
center court at Melbourne Park was named Rod Laver Arena last year 
in honor of the Australian who won the four major tournaments of tennis 
in both 1962 and 1969. And on the day before this year's open started, 
Laver hit with rising Aussie star Lleyton Hewitt to christen the 10,000-seat, 
retractable-roof Vodafone Arena. Laver, who has 11 titles from Grand 
Slam tournaments, said he did not expect today's younger players to 
dominate tennis the way Pete Sampras has, winning a record 13 singles 
titles at Wimbledon and the Australian and U.S. Opens. There are ``just 
so many young players out there that can rise up and play their best 
tennis,'' he said. He mentioned U.S. Open champion Marat Safin, a 
20-year-old Russian now No. 2 in the rankings, and Hewitt, a 19-year-old 
Australian who won last week's ATP tournament in Sydney and is seeded 
seventh for the Australian Open. Laver, nicknamed the ``Rocket,'' 
might have won more Grand Slam tournaments, possibly surpassing Sampras' 
total, if they had been opened sooner to professionals. As a pro, 
he missed the six years up to 1968. ``I don't dwell on that,'' he 
said. ``If you are just trophy-hunting or whatever, then maybe you 
could start to go back and try to analyze your career, but I was very 
fortunate to play some of my best tennis at the right time. ``I am 
very, very happy that Pete is the record holder. ... You don't see 
him play just average matches. He is always playing at his peak.'' 
Laver suffered a stroke in July 1998, and ``I think tennis is certainly 
one of the things that has brought my recovery back,'' he said.