Weary rescuers battled blocked roads and landslides to hunt for survivors 
Sunday while others prayed for the dead after an earthquake that killed 
more than 200 people. Body-hunting dogs, sent in from the United States 
and Mexico, roamed across the ruins of the Las Colinas neighborhood, 
buried by a landslide when the magnitude-7.6 quake hit late Saturday 
morning. Centered off El Salvador's southern coast, the temblor was 
felt from northern Panama to central Mexico _ a distance of more than 
1,100 miles. ``The situation is grave,'' said Mauricio Ferrer, chief 
of the National Emergency Committee. The nation's main airport was 
closed and hundreds of roads were blocked by landslides, slowing relief. 
Pope John Paul II on Sunday urged international assistance for the 
victims. Mexico was first to send substantial help, with three planeloads. 
The United States was quick behind, with rescue crews and supplies. 
Offers of assistance came from Spain, Taiwan, Panama, even Guatemala, 
which itself suffered damage _ and two deaths _ in the Saturday quake. 
National Police and rescue groups said 150 bodies had been recovered 
from Las Colinas alone by midday _ but in the post-quake chaos, rescuing 
took precedence over accurate counting. The National Emergency Committee 
reported 193 dead, 350 injured and 1,000 missing nationwide _ though 
its toll of the dead from Las Colinas was 60 less than the number 
of bodies from the same area reported by the city morgue. National 
Police counted 234 dead nationally, 2,000 injured, 4,692 houses destroyed 
and 16,148 damaged. Eighty-seven churches were damaged as well _ including 
the ruined Our Lady of Guadalupe Church overlooking Las Colinas. ``We 
will need to do some crying today, and there will be time for that. 
But we all need to understand how lucky we have been,'' the Rev. Peter 
Danaher of Lindenhurt, N.J., told somber, red-eyed parishioners worshipping 
before the rubble of brick and stone that had been their church. The 
only surviving wall behind Danaher displayed a cross in a stained-glass 
window and an icon of the Virgin. The sound of hymns drifted a few 
hundred yards down the ravine to rescuers digging in Las Colinas _ 
and Danaher used a portable speaker to be heard over the intermittent, 
grinding roar of earthmovers and generators from the disaster scene 
below. ``I am not worried about rebuilding the church. That can be 
done in five months or five years, it doesn't matter,'' Danaher said. 
``That is a question of brick and concrete. Ours is a question of 
lives and human spirit.'' Only three survivors had been recovered 
from Las Colinas, but hundreds of people worked without sleep to hunt 
for more, many using only shovels, even bare hands. ``It is very dangerous 
here, but we are going to keep hunting. We are going to take them 
out alive or dead,'' said Juan Sanchez, a Green Cross rescue worker. 
``There are more than 300 houses that were destroyed, and this could 
continue because there could be more landslides.'' Local seismologists 
had recorded more than 500 aftershocks by midday Sunday _ most imperceptible 
but some fierce. They helped to shatter the nerves of people living 
beside wrecked houses. Many residents of San Salvador slept in the 
streets or cars overnight, tablecloths or curtains covering windows 
for privacy. The quake also hit hard elsewhere in this nation of 6 
million. Mayor Jose Perez of Comasagua, 17 miles west of the capital, 
said 95 percent of the houses there were flattened or badly damaged. 
He said four people died, though reports Saturday had put the number 
at 35. In Santa Ana, about 35 miles northwest of the capital, the 
116-year-old El Calvario church collapsed, killing at least one employee. 
The Red Cross said 13 people died in nearby Sosonati. Ten people died 
when a landslide buried a bus on the highway between San Salvador 
and Zacatecoluca to the east. The quake knocked out El Salvador's 
telephone service and electricity for several hours. A 1986 earthquake 
centered near San Salvador killed an estimated 1,500 people and injured 
8,000.