good evening. on the day after a devastating earthquake rocked el 
salvador, more strong aftehocks as the search intensifies for survivors. 
the death toll now stands at more than 200, with 1,000 injured and 
more than 1,000 others trapped inside buildings leveled by landslides. 
the quake, magnitude 7.6, was centered 65 miles off the central american 
coast. nbc's kerry sanders reports from the hardest-hit area just 
west of the city. in search of life, but everywhere death. the rescue 
effort in el salvador is made up mostly of volunteers. but hundreds 
of soldiers also have been sent to the devastated region along with 
heavy equipment deployed in a race ainst time. the worst damage is 
in santa tecla near the capital a mudslide almost 300-yards-wide, 
one mile long -- engulfing hundreds of homes. what we heard was a 
big tank of water that broke. and all that dirt -- it was a mudslide, 
actually. he's an american missionary tonight praying for a miracle. 
maybe there's somebody that's alive down there. as crews dig, 27-year-old 
julio hernandez watches the search for his parents. julio was away 
at work saturday when the earthquake hit. it took him four hours on 
foot to get back home. there was nothing left. we worked from in the 
morning until at night in the hope that we would find something. everything 
that i had, gone. this effort, driven by the hope that maybe somebody 
was caught inside an air pocket that perhaps somebody could still 
be alive. hundreds are camped out at emergency shelters, lucky to 
be alive. the local hospital has managed to remain opened but is overwhelmed 
with survivors. the rescue effort has turned up more victims than 
survivors. a makeshift morgue has been set up so families can identify 
their dead. some families kept a candlelight vigil throughout the 
night, their worst fears already confirmed. search dogs are now on 
scene, and volunteers are vowing to dig around the clock tonight as 
they did last night. the belief -- if there's anyone left alive, there's 
precious little time to find them. kerry sanders, nbc news, santa 
tecla, el salvador. the relief effort is already underway in this 
country and others. nbc's hillary lane reports on the quick response. 
with hopes for finding survivors growing dimmer by the hour, u.s. 
relief workers conduct last-minute tests on the tarmac in miami. 60 
degrees. you've got plenty of signal. before boarding a charter flight 
to san salvador. they carry a mix of the most basic relief supplies 
and the most sophisticated rescue equipment. both could help save 
lives. in washington, an urgent plea from the ambassador to the united 
states. the main priorities right now are to rescue those people who 
are already buried. dan booth, with 27 years experience on search-and-rescue 
missions, knows just how important speed is. their chances of surviving 
if they've survived the initial collapse, their chances within that 
24 hours are far far greater.wc rescuers call it "the golden 24 hours." 
and though that period has passed, hope remains. some red cross workers 
are already in place. and ironically, so are some supplies left over 
from hurricane mitch, which devastated the area in 1998. we have warehouses 
there that have water, plastic sheeting, that have many of the supplies 
that will be necessary right now. we were very fortunate in that sense. 
now, as supplies are airlifted in from as far away as madrid, el salvadorans 
living in the united states are gathering to give money and personal 
support. the tragedy already happed. now we have to help. many, like 
this family in houston, do not know the fate of their loved ones, 
but do know what they can do to help. give and pray. hillary lane, 
nbc news, new york.