The possibility of a pardon for Michael Milken, a former Wall Street 
financier who was convicted of securities fraud, has prompted a series 
of strong protests from prosecutors, financial regulators and others 
to the White House urging President Clinton to reject Milken's request. 
Among those who have opposed a pardon are Mary Jo White, the U.S. 
attorney in New York, whose office prosecuted Milken, and Richard 
H. Walker, the director of enforcement for the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Both have written letters to the White House, administration 
officials said Sunday. The New York Times erroneously reported on 
Saturday that federal prosecutors and others who might have objected 
had not done so since the possibility of a pardon from the president 
was first reported in the newspaper last month. Those who have objected 
to granting Milken a pardon said they felt he was an especially inappropriate 
candidate for a pardon because he had been charged with violating 
orders to stay out of the securities industry as part of his original 
plea bargain. Walker, in his Dec. 15 letter to Beth Nolan, the White 
House counsel, said that Milken ``failed to live up to his commitment 
and duty not to re-enter the securities industry.'' He said that after 
his release from prison and a halfway house, Milken formed two companies 
to provide consulting services. ``The so-called `consulting services' 
proved to be exactly the kind of activities that the Commission had 
ordered Milken not to perform _ serving as a broker in the securities 
industry,'' Walker said. Walker noted that the SEC charged Milken 
with violating that order in at least two transactions, one a multimillion-dollar 
deal between Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. Ltd. and MCI Communications 
Corp. in 1995, the other a transaction between News Corp. and Ronald 
Perelman's New World Communications Group Inc. in 1994. Milken was 
a consultant to Murdoch and Perelman. After the SEC sued Milken on 
those charges, he agreed to return $47 million in fees to settle the 
complaint without entering a plea. In his seven-page letter to Nolan, 
Walker concluded, ``Milken does not merit a pardon.'' Clinton administration 
officials said that others had written to oppose the pardon, including 
Benito Romano, who was the U.S. attorney in New York at the time of 
Milken's prosecution, and senior officials from the Justice and Treasury 
Departments. On Saturday, professor David S. Ruder of the Northwestern 
University Law School, who is a former chairman of the SEC, telephoned 
Nolan and urged that the president decline to pardon Milken. Clinton 
had tentatively decided to pardon Milken as one of his last acts in 
office, one associate of the president said recently. An administration 
official said this weekend, however, that Clinton was weighing the 
views of opponents of a pardon, and that a decision would be made 
in a few days. Milken, who pleaded guilty to six counts of securities 
fraud in 1990, served nearly two years in prison, paid more than $1 
billion in fines, penalties, restitution and civil settlements, and 
was barred from the securities business for life. He has mounted an 
aggressive campaign seeking a pardon, and his case had been pressed 
directly with Clinton by Ron Burkle, a friend of the president who 
has been a major Democratic fund-raiser. Walker said that Milken did 
not cooperate as fully with investigators as he had promised when 
he first agreed to plead guilty. The appeal for a pardon was made 
on the basis of Milken's record of charitable giving. Walker wrote 
to Nolan that ``Milken's well-known philanthropy is commendable. But 
it cannot erase his simultaneous illegal conduct _ conduct that occurred 
after he was convicted and after he was released from prison. Philanthropy 
cannot provide a license to violate the law.''