as we mentioned tonight, one of the last cold war style dictators 
out of power, slobodan milosevic, has now conceded defeat in yugoslavia 
one day after his people and military turned on him in the streets. 
tonight it appears all over for him. we have two reports this evening. 
we begin in belgrade. turbulent but exhausted serbs today picking 
up the pieces of their revolution. day one of what was until yesterday 
unthinkable, a life not ruled by slobodan milosevic. he stole everything 
from us, says this man, our house s, our land. thank god we are now 
free. even slobodan milosevic finally conceding defeat, appearing 
on tv congratulating cost kft -- congratulating vojislav kostunica 
on his victory. even saying he would spend time with his family. some 
celebrateors spent time in the streets, yesterday trashed by protesters. 
a whole nation of serbs and how to govern in the void left by milosevic. 
president kostunica helped today by word that sanctions could be lifted 
as early as next week. there was more good news. a constitutional 
court and a pledge that it would obey his authority. and in a massive 
show of support, 2 million people in the streets. the ceremony postponed. 
instead, a rock concert. followed by an orthodox church blessing. 
sources said kostunica has other priorities, like what to do about 
milosevic. to that end, russian envoy eye gore ivanak meeting first 
with kostunica and then milosevic. the first meeting with the opposition 
leader since the communist taker. ivanov says milosevic wants to remain 
a force in national serbian politics. no way say those on yesterday's 
frontlines. it is over. he is ordinary citizen now. their revolution 
behind them, serbs, now holding that life after 13 years of life and 
hardship under milosevic can finally get back to normal. nbc news, 
belgrade. this is andrea mitchell in washington where officials celebrate 
the opposition victory. but despite milosevic's remarkable concessions, 
still worry about him. president clinton calls the outcome astonishing, 
congratulating kostunica, but rejecting any suggestion that milosevic 
stay, or even worse, have an official political role in yugoslavia. 
i think it would be a terrible mistake for him to remain active in 
the political life of the country. that is not what the people voted 
for. the u.s. spent $36 billion over the last two years supporting 
the opposition, but can their victory stand? that could depend on 
whether russians still give milosevic false hope of a political combat. 
in moscow today, milosevic's brother. he says he -- his brother will 
not flea, that he will stay. that, says a foreign minister, is trouble. 
the next big question, war crimes? milosevic indicted for atrocities 
in kosovo. today the prosecutor said she's ready for him. i am prepared 
to receive milosevic in the hague at any time. but that is unlikely. 
a key milosevic general, rad radford -- rad radford rad -- radavan 
karadich also still free. they refuse to turn milosevic or the others 
over. it is important for the future of yugoslavia that they be held 
accountable and justice be done. but justice takes time. tonight the 
president is talking to european leaders about ways to lift some demick 
sanctions on yugoslavia as early as monday as a strong show of support 
to the new government. andrea mitchell, nbc news, at the state department. 
with us for more on how this shakes out, richard hass, a veteran of 
the scounscoun in the bush white house, and an -- veteran of the security 
council in the bush white house. well, kostunica is the new name american 
viewers have to get used to. how about a reality check on this guy? 
he's obviously a lot better than the alternative we have had to live 
with for more than a decade now, but he is also a national lift, a 
serb nati onal lift. he -- a serb nationalist. he has resentment against 
america. as andrea mitchell pointed out, even if milosevic were to 
stay in the country, this is not somebody that kostunica w ould gladly 
hand over. he has to balcony opening in the united states and europe 
at the same time while keeping nationalist credentials. he will not 
be someone easy to work with. isn't someone somewhere at the state 
department perhaps in the bowels of the situation room at the white 
house doing a quiet victory lap tonight? isn't this really just what 
the u.s. hoped and prayed would happen after the bombing? the sanctions 
would work, insurrection, and then the leadership would topple? i 
hope they don't quite do their lap yet. i think it is ok to have your 
track shoes on, but i wouldn't do any running yet, because what we 
are seeing is milosevic is out of office, but he has not given up 
power. and we still have this end game to choreograph. the idea that 
he would keep a major party role, that, to me, is worriesome because 
he could pull all sorts of strings behind-the-scenes. so we are not 
right there. to use another metaphor, the fat lady may be warming 
up, but too soon for her to be singing. will he have followers? yeah, 
every day the security and military types will look at what is in 
the street, they will see how people power is going. also, kostunica 
has to decide how hard to press. it is one of the things that makes 
me uneasy about this russian diplomatic intervention. one thing if 
the russians walk in and say, milosevic, the game is up, you have 
to leave, and then we start talking about where he goes, but at end 
of the day, the foreign minister of russia, ivanov, seemed to be offering 
him some role or space in politics, and that left me a little uneasy. 
viewers of the presidential debate know this game up -- this came 
up the other night. if you are clinton of the u.s., do you call putin 
and say, let this be a test of our relationship and your heat as a 
world leader. go on in here, here are the talking points, let's have 
common ground on this new guy? i think that's the way to go and make 
clear while we would welcome russian involvement, it is conditional. 
and it is conditional that they give milosevic the right message, 
and the right message is he's got to go. i would say go means clearly 
out of politics. i, for one, would be willing to alou him to stay 
there. i don't have a real problem with pushing the indictment at 
this time. the key thing is to get this man out of political life 
and let yugoslav interests constitution -- ultimately, a yugoslav 
court would be the right to try him. yugoslav is a european country. 
after a certain amount of time passes, i would imagine the situation 
would be right to bring people like milosevic to trial. i think the 
key thing is to allow national jurisdiction to work. after all, that's 
our position. we are suspicious of international tribunals. so long 
as yugoslavia were actually involved with a legitimate court, i think 
the right place to try him is by the yugoslav people. after all, they 
have paid an enormous price for this guy. lifting sarvingses -- sanctions. 
is it too much of a message? or is the opposite true, have the sanctions 
been, as some say in cuba, hurting the wrong people? i think we ought 
to say what the trigger would be, and the trigger would be milosevic 
out of political life and then we can relieve sanctions. richard haass, 
thank you very much. thank you, brian.