Monica Seles became the first player to reach the second round of 
the Australian Open, winning in just five minutes Monday when Brie 
Rippner retired after spraining her left ankle. Seles, seeded fourth, 
led 1-0, 0-15 when Rippner stumbled along the baseline and tumbled 
to the court. After receiving treatment from a trainer, Rippner decided 
she couldn't continue. The tournament opened with mild, sunny weather 
and no upsets among the early matches. Defending champion Andre Agassi, 
seeded sixth, sailed through the first set in 19 minutes and went 
on to beat Jiri Vanek 6-0, 7-5, 6-3. ``I felt like I stayed solid 
from start to finish,'' Agassi said. ``I've had so many good results 
here that it's hard for me not be confident.'' Rippner's injury provided 
a strange finish for the first match at Vodafone Arena, the new 10,000-seat 
stadium that gives Melbourne Park a second court with a retractable 
roof. Seles said footing on the new court was tricky but will likely 
improve as the tournament progresses. ``The court hasn't been played 
much on,'' she said. ``It's definitely a lot stickier than the outside 
courts I've been practicing on. Right now it's just like a glue.'' 
Seles said she felt badly for Rippner, her good friend and a fellow 
American. But because Seles is battling a virus and taking antibiotics, 
she was glad to play just 12 points. ``Now I can rest a couple more 
days,'' she said. ``I've got a low-grade fever, and I'm just really 
weak.'' U.S. Open champion Marat Safin, showing no signs of the sore 
elbow that bothered him in a match last week, beat Galo Blanco 6-4, 
1-6, 6-4, 7-6 (5). Safin's serve improved as the match progressed, 
and he fired aces at up to 131 mph. ``The elbow for the moment is 
OK,'' Safin said. ``Hopefully I will serve like this the whole two 
weeks.'' The Russian, seeded second to Gustavo Kuerten, made a marked 
improvement on last year's showing at Melbourne, when he lost in the 
opening round to Grant Stafford and was fined $2,000 for tanking. 
The U.S. Open and Australian Open men's titles have been won back 
to back four times in the past eight years, with Agassi and Pete Sampras 
each achieving the feat twice. Safin said he's optimistic about his 
chances. ``I have enough game. I have enough power. I have everything 
to win Grand Slam tournaments,'' he said. Eighth-seeded Tim Henman 
and No. 9 Juan Carlos Ferrero also advanced. Henman beat Hicham Arazi 
7-6 (5), 6-4, 6-4, and Ferrero swept Alun Jones 6-3, 7-6 (3), 6-2. 
In other women's play, No. 12 Jennifer Capriati rallied past Henrieta 
Nagyova 4-6, 6-2, 7-5. No. 8 Anna Kournikova beat Daniela Hantuchova 
of Slovakia 6-2, 7-5; No. 14 Sandrine Testud eliminated Maria Antonia 
Sanchez Lorenzo 6-1, 6-0; and No. 15 Kim Clijsters beat Anca Barna 
6-3, 6-2. Seles, a four-time Australian Open champion, won her first 
33 matches in the tournament before losing to Martina Hingis in the 
semifinals two years ago. ``I've always liked playing here and always 
look forward to coming back,'' Seles said. She has a favorable draw 
this year, with Hingis, Venus Williams and Serena Williams all in 
the other half. Hingis is seeded No. 1 and bidding for her fourth 
Australian Open title, and Venus Williams is seeded third and trying 
for her third consecutive Grand Slam title. Defending champion Lindsay 
Davenport is seeded second.