Strong aftershocks Sunday sent rescuers fleeing from the search for 
survivors of an earthquake believed to have killed more than 300 people. 
But they quickly resumed the desperate hunt for hundreds of missing, 
using sniffer dogs, shovels and their bare hands. Workers rescued 
a 22-year-old man trapped for 30 hours under slabs of concrete, reviving 
dwindling hopes that more survivors might still be found in a quake-triggered 
landslide in the Las Colinas neighborhood near the capital. Drawn 
by tapping on concrete slabs, workers dug for hours until they reached 
Sergio Moreno late Sunday. Red Cross volunteer Lucio Castellano said 
he suffered dehydration and a cut leg, but was in good condition. 
Moreno was one of only a handful of survivors from the landslide that 
engulfed hundreds. As the death toll rose from Saturday's magnitude 
7.6 quake, President Francisco Flores said he had asked Colombia for 
3,000 coffins and overwhelmed officials began to bury some victims 
in common graves. The strongest of more than 660 aftershocks led rescuers 
to scale back digging in the Las Colinas neighborhood that was buried 
by dirt that came crashing down from a mountainside on Saturday morning. 
``We still don't know anything,'' said Gladis de Carman, searching 
for her missing daughter and crying as she spoke on a cell phone to 
her mother. ``And now the ground is shaking again under us.'' The 
largest aftershock , measured at magnitude 5.4, caused more of the 
hillside to collapse late Sunday afternoon, sending rescuers fleeing 
in panic. None was injured, and they soon returned to the gruesome 
work. Body-hunting dogs, sent in from the United States and Mexico, 
sniffed for the living and the dead under the blinding sun at Las 
Colinas. ``We're looking for our friends here. This can't wait,'' 
said a frustrated Juan Jose Lopez, who had come with six friends to 
try to dig out an elderly couple and was frustrated by the delays. 
Saturday's quake off of El Salvador's coast was felt from northern 
Panama to central Mexico _ a distance of more than 1,100 miles. Sunday's 
aftershocks were centered within a few miles of the capital, according 
to local seismologists. Workers at a temporary morgue near the disaster 
scene said 182 bodies had been pulled from Las Colinas on Sunday. 
Dr. Mario Afredo Hernandez of the coroner's office, the Institute 
of Legal Medicine, said about half had not yet been identified, and 
those were being buried in common graves because there was no place 
to keep them. Flores told a news conference he had asked Colombia 
for 3,000 coffins, but said it was ``premature'' to evaluate the damage. 
In the post-quake chaos, rescuing took precedence over accurate counting. 
National Police counted 234 dead nationally, 2,000 injured, 4,692 
houses destroyed and 16,148 damaged. But with bodies emerging hourly 
from Las Colinas alone, the death toll seemed certain to rise above 
300. Eighty-seven churches were damaged as well _ including the ruined 
Our Lady of Guadalupe Church overlooking Las Colinas. ``We will need 
to do some crying today, and there will be time for that. But we all 
need to understand how lucky we have been,'' the Rev. Peter Danaher 
of Lindenhurt, N.Y., told somber, red-eyed parishioners worshipping 
before the rubble of brick and stone that had been their church. The 
only surviving wall behind Danaher displayed a cross in a stained-glass 
window and an icon of the Virgin. The sound of hymns drifted a few 
hundred yards down the ravine to rescuers digging in Las Colinas. 
``I am not worried about rebuilding the church. That can be done in 
five months or five years, it doesn't matter,'' Danaher said. ``That 
is a question of brick and concrete. Ours is a question of lives and 
human spirit.'' Few survivors had been recovered from Las Colinas, 
but hundreds of people worked without sleep to hunt for more, many 
using only shovels, even bare hands. ``It is very dangerous here, 
but we are going to keep hunting. We are going to take them out alive 
or dead,'' said Juan Sanchez, a Green Cross rescue worker. Fearful 
of the aftershocks that reached magnitude 4.6, many residents of San 
Salvador slept in the streets or cars overnight, tablecloths or curtains 
covering windows for privacy. The nation's main airport reopened Sunday 
afternoon after being closed more more than a day. That eased the 
way for more relief. Pope John Paul II urged international assistance 
for the nation of 6 million. Mexico was first to send substantial 
help: five planeloads of food, medicine and 150 specialists. The United 
States followed with rescue crews and supplies. Offers of assistance 
came from Germany, Spain, Taiwan, Britain, Panama, even Guatemala, 
which itself suffered six deaths in the quake. Guatemala was supplying 
40 percent of the electricity used by El Salvador's quake-crippled 
power grid, up from less than 10 percent. Police said seven people 
died in San Miguel, 70 miles southeast of the capital, five of them 
when a hillside collapsed on coffee-pickers. A prematurely born infant 
died when the loss of power cut hospital respirators. On Sunday, scores 
of patients dozed on gurneys and mattresses beneath tarps and palm 
trees before the quake-damaged hospital. Mayor Jose Perez said 95 
percent of the houses were badly damaged in Comasagua, 17 miles west 
of the capital, and he said four people died. The Red Cross said 13 
people died in Sosonati west of the capital and 10 were killed when 
a landslide buried a bus on a highway east of San Salvador.