Russia's Marat Safin has no intention of curbing his emotional on-court 
outbursts _ even if others suggest his tantrums can give opponents 
a psychological edge. ``Sorry, but I was No. 1 in the world. Who wants 
to tell me (to change)?'' Safin said Monday after his first-round 
6-4, 1-6, 6-4, 7-6 (5) victory over Galo Blanco of Spain. ``I don't 
understand why everybody is trying to tell me that it is bad for me,'' 
Safin said. ``I've been doing this since I was a kid.'' The 20-year-old 
Russian has earned a reputation for smashing rackets. ``How can I 
change my character, it is me. I'm doing well _ even breaking 50 rackets. 
I mean, I was No. 1 in the world for two weeks, that means something.'' 
After being fined $2,000 for tanking his match at last year's Australian 
Open, Safin went on to beat Pete Sampras in straight sets to clinch 
the U.S. Open and finished the year No. 2 in the ATP Champions race. 
He said he was disappointed to finish behind Gustavo Kuerten, but 
was confident he could go do better this year. ``I have enough game, 
I have enough power. I have everything to win a grand slam tournament,'' 
he said. ___ MOPING MOROCCANS: Younes el Aynaoui and Hichim Arazi 
gave tennis in Morocco an enormous boost last year when they both 
reached the quarterfinals at the Australian Open. Never before had 
two Moroccans advanced to the quarterfinals of the same Grand Slam. 
Adding to the success, Karim Alami made the third round before he 
was beaten. But the Moroccans have failed to repeat the unprecedented 
success. El Aynaoui retired Monday after aggravating a knee injury 
when he trailed Ivo Heuberger of Switzerland 6-2, 5-4. Arazi was ousted 
in straight sets by No. 8 seed Tim Henman of Britain. Alami takes 
on Wayne Ferreira in a first-round match Tuesday. ___ JEAN THERAPY: 
Defending Australian Open champion Andre Agassi travels light when 
he heads Down Under. After advancing to the second round on Monday 
with a straight sets win over Jiri Vanek of the Czech Republic, the 
30-year-old Agassi said his packing method reflects the casual lifestyle 
in Australia. Off the court and out of the spotlight you can usually 
find him wearing a pair of jeans. ``I enjoy the easiness that you 
can really only pack a pair of jeans and make it through the whole 
month _ (you) can't quite do that in New York or London or Paris,'' 
Agassi said.