Authorities buried many of the 400 victims of El Salvador's earthquake 
in mass graves, saying a landslide that wiped out entire families 
had made it impossible to fully know the identities of the dead. Distraught 
relatives lined up on Sunday at an improvised morgue in a bloodstained 
alley to identify some of those mangled and entombed in Saturday's 
7.6-magnitude quake. But the need to dispose of the mounting number 
of corpses cheated some of the chance for closure. One woman looking 
for a pair of missing cousins showed up at the morgue in the half-buried 
Las Colinas neighborhood only to find out that two children who matched 
their description had already been sent to a mass burial. ``My cousins 
are similar to the ages of the ones you buried, and they are missing,'' 
18-year-old Kenya Marbella told stern-faced soldiers who said it was 
too late to see the bodies. ``How could you just throw bodies in the 
ground like that?'' With no refrigerated facilities, and bodies and 
body parts piling up in the alley near the quake-triggered landslide 
that covered Las Colinas in a wall of dirt, there was little choice 
but mass burial, said coroner Mario Alfredo Hernandez. About half 
of the corpses were unidentified, he said. With aftershocks as strong 
as 5.4 magnitude rattling the unstable mass of soil and rubble, there 
was no safe place to keep the 182 bodies found in the area so far. 
Some corpses lay peacefully on the pavement as if the victims had 
lain down for a nap. Some were covered in trash bags. President Francisco 
Flores asked Colombia to send 300 coffins. Red Cross official Mildred 
Sandoval said 403 deaths had been confirmed nationwide. Police also 
reported 2,000 injured, 4,692 houses destroyed and 16,148 damaged. 
Authorities said about 1,000 people were still missing, most in Las 
Colinas, located six miles east of San Salvador. Saturday's quake 
off of El Salvador's coast was felt from northern Panama to central 
Mexico _ a distance of more than 1,100 miles. Sunday's aftershocks 
were centered within a few miles of the capital, according to local 
seismologists. Pope John Paul II urged international assistance for 
the nation of 6 million. Offers of help came from Mexico, the United 
States, Germany, Spain, Taiwan, Britain, Panama, even Guatemala, which 
itself suffered six deaths in the quake. Unlike the night before in 
El Salvador, when hundreds of survivors steered diggers to areas where 
their family members might be buried, starkly fewer people waited 
for relatives and friends to emerge from the immense landslide Sunday. 
``Most of those that are under there now were with their families 
when they died,'' said police officer Rafael Hernandez. ``With everyone 
already dead, there is no one here to claim many of the bodies we 
find now.'' But as some gave up hope, incredibly, a survivor was brought 
up from beneath tons of soil late Sunday. Workers rescued 22-year-old 
Sergio Moreno, who was trapped for 30 hours under slabs of concrete. 
He had drawn rescuers' attention by tapping on the concrete. Red Cross 
volunteer Lucio Castellano said he suffered dehydration and a cut 
leg but was in good condition otherwise. During Sunday afternoon, 
a powerful aftershock caused more of the hillside to collapse, sending 
rescuers fleeing in panic. Nobody was injured. Body-hunting dogs, 
sent in from the United States and Mexico, sniffed for the living 
and the dead under the blinding sun. One led authorities to the battered 
body of a Las Colinas man who was wearing nothing but a navy blue 
bathing suit when the earthquake killed him. His body went unclaimed. 
Meanwhile, those who could identify their dead held hundreds of funerals 
Sunday. Junior church officials in T-shirts helped lead graveside 
services, while bone-weary priests in sweat-soaked suits tried to 
come up with new ways to reassure a devastated nation. ``Oh, mama, 
tell me how this could happen, tell me what else I could have done,'' 
stammered Jose Cruz Torres, who buried three sisters and three grandchildren 
lost to the quake Sunday. He began to sing a hymn in Spanish, but 
the lyrics were soon drowned out by his sobs. ``It's like the world 
here is upside down.''