Defending champion Lindsay Davenport survived a tough first-round 
match against Jelena Dokic and won 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 in the Australian 
Open on Monday. Davenport pounded five aces and a service winner in 
her last two service games to take command. ``Win it for Australia, 
Lindsay,'' one spectator shouted to the American in the last game. 
The 17-year-old Dokic, born in Yugoslavia but an Australian resident 
the last six years, has accused Australian tennis officials and the 
media of treating her family badly. On the eve of the Open, she demanded 
to be listed in the lineup as Yugoslavian, rather than Australian. 
Her father, Damir, said before the match that despite the outcome, 
Dokic would quit the tournament immediately following the match and 
leave the country. He contended that the draw pitting Dokic against 
the defending champion in the first round was rigged against his daughter. 
However, Dokic remained focused on the court and kept Davenport on 
the run with hard, deep shots and gained a key service break in the 
10th game by forcing errors. In the second set, Davenport broke in 
the third game and then put the set away with two aces. More heavy 
serving put her ahead 5-3 in the final set. Dokic badly missed with 
a drop shot attempt at deuce in the last game, and then netted two 
shots. U.S. Open champion Marit Safin also struggled in his opening 
match. But departed from his usual style of power tennis, and it helped 
carry him to victory over Spain's Galo Blanco. The U.S. Open champion 
gained a key third-set service break with a short slice, a drop shot 
and a winning lob, and then set up match point with a delicate volley 
as he beat Blanco 6-4, 1-6, 6-4, 7-6 (5). Thanks to his lopsided second-set 
score, Blanco won more points than Safin, 137-133. ``He was playing 
unbelievable tennis,'' Safin said. ``I was very lucky. In some important 
moments, I played very good.'' In other first-round matches, Andre 
Agassi and Patrick Rafter were among the men who advanced. On the 
women's side, Monica Seles, Conchita Martinez, Anna Kournikova and 
Jennifer Capriati got to the second round. The 20-year-old Russian 
also showed no signs of an elbow injury that hampered his serve in 
a match last week. He served 11 aces at speeds up to 131 mph. ``For 
the moment, it is OK. I can serve and I'm really satisfied,'' said 
Safin, who went out in the first round at last year's Australian and 
was fined $2,000 for tanking. He was ranked No. 2 in the rankings 
at the end of the year. On his way to his second service break of 
the second set, Blanco sprinted back for a lob and hit a sharply angled 
passing shot between his legs. Safin broke in the third set's sixth 
game, but was immediately broken back. He was warned for a code violation 
when he broke his racket after netting a backhand on game point. After 
winning the set with his touch shots, Safin was unable to cash in 
two match points with Blanco serving at 4-5 in the fourth. In the 
tiebreaker, he reached 6-3 with a soft cross-court volley and, three 
points later, finished the 2-hour, 47-minute match with a forehand 
blast that Blanco could only push back into the net. In the last eight 
years, Pete Sampras and Agassi each have gone on twice from U.S. Open 
victories to Australian Open titles. Safin believes he can do it too. 
``I have enough game, I have enough power _ I have everything to win 
a Grand Slam tournament,'' he said. Agassi, the defending champion, 
encountered few problems in his first-round match. Agassi, seeded 
sixth, needed just 1 hour, 40 minutes to beat Czech player Jiri Vanek 
6-0, 7-5, 6-3. ``I really couldn't have done it better today, and 
if that continues, I have a good feeling for how quickly I'll get 
into my best form,'' he said. Rafter, seeded 12th, beat fellow Australian 
Scott Draper 6-3, 6-2, 7-5. No. 8 Tim Henman defeated Morocco's Hicham 
Arazi, a quarterfinalist last year, 7-6 (5), 6-4, 6-4. No. 9 Juan 
Carlos Ferrero beat Australian Alun Jones 6-3, 7-6 (3), 6-2, and No. 
13 Cedric Pioline beat Italy's Davide Sanguinetti 7-6 (3), 6-4, 6-2. 
No. 14 Dominik Hrbaty, plagued by early errors, had to struggle from 
two sets down for a 3-6, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1, 6-1 victory in 2 1-2 hours 
over French qualifer Jean-Rene Lisnard. In the tournament's first 
match in the new Vodafone Arena, Melbourne Park's second stadium with 
a retractable roof, Brie Rippner stumbled and sprained her left ankle 
five minutes into her match with Seles. She had to retire against 
Seles, a four-time champion and the women's No. 4 seed, leading 1-0, 
0-15. The quick result gave Seles more time to recover from a virus 
that has left her feeling weak. American Chanda Rubin, No. 11, was 
the first seeded player to lose. Slovakia's Janette Husarova beat 
her 6-3, 6-0. No. 5 Martinez, a semifinalist here last year and finalist 
at the French Open, defeated Australian Christina Wheeler 6-1, 6-1. 
No. 12 Capriati, also a semifinalist last year, pulled out a 4-6, 
6-2, 7-5 victory over Slovakia's Henrieta Nagyova. Kournikova, No. 
8, defeated Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia 6-2, 7-5; No. 14 Sandrine 
Testud beat Spain's Maria Antonia Sanchez Lorenzo 6-1, 6-0; and No. 
15 Kim Clijsters defeated Germany's Anca Barna 6-3, 6-2.