Peru's jailed former armed forces commander has confirmed that fugitive 
ex-spy chief Vladimiro Montesinos tried to persuade top military commanders 
last September to overthrow then-President Alberto Fujimori and install 
Peru's finance minister in his place. Retired Gen. Jose Villanueva 
Ruesta said in a television interview Sunday night that Montesinos 
proposed the coup plot after Fujimori's Sept. 16 announcement that 
he was dissolving the spy chief's intelligence agency and stepping 
down after special elections. The proposal, which Villanueva said 
he and other military commanders turned down, came days after the 
release of a video of Montesinos apparently bribing an opposition 
congressman. Fujimori was later declared morally unfit for office 
by Congress after he fled to his ancestral homeland of Japan in November, 
amid mounting corruption scandals surrounding his former intelligence 
adviser. He was replaced by interim President Valentin Paniagua, whose 
mandate is to hold elections in April and turn power over to a new 
government in July. Former Finance Minister Carlos Bolona, now a presidential 
candidate, confirmed Sunday night that Montesinos had approached him 
with the offer to head a ``provisional government of national reconciliation.'' 
He said he refused the offer. Villanueva, who has denied any illicit 
involvement with Montesinos, was arrested near the border with Ecuador 
last month and placed under house arrest to prevent him from leaving 
the country. He was transferred to a prison this weekend on charges 
that he helped hide Montesinos, who reportedly slipped out of Peru 
on Oct. 29 on a yacht and whose location remains a mystery. Fujimori 
used the threat of a coup to rally support from the United States 
and other governments in the region to pressure Panama into giving 
Montesinos refuge in late September. But the spymaster returned to 
Peru a month later after it became clear that his bid for political 
asylum was going to be turned down. He immediately went into hiding, 
amid mounting charges ranging from money laundering and influence 
peddling to illegal arms dealing. Since then, dozens of former military 
officers, government officials and businessmen have come under investigation 
for taking part in Montesinos' reputed web of corruption.