McALESTER, Okla. (AP) _ Two maximum-security inmates with a history 
of escapes, including a man who raped and murdered his 81-year-old 
neighbor, fled from the state prison early Monday. The inmates were 
discovered missing from their cells at the Oklahoma State Penitentiary 
about 5 a.m., said Jerry Massie, a spokesman for the state Department 
of Corrections. Massie identified the escaped convicts as James Robert 
Thomas, 25, and Willie Lee Hoffman, 21. Both were considered dangerous, 
but there was no evidence they were armed, Massie said. They were 
suspected of stealing a car in the McAlester area late in the morning, 
said Sterling Taylor, a dispatcher for the Pittsburg County Sheriff's 
Office. ``They are on the road. And we don't know which way they are 
headed,'' Taylor said. Thomas was convicted of the 1993 rape and murder 
of Jessie M. Roberts, who had hired him to mow her lawn. Thomas, who 
was 17 at the time of the slaying, was sentenced to life without chance 
of parole for murder plus 400 years for rape, Massie said. Hoffman 
is serving a 20-year sentence for kidnapping and other charges. It 
is the first escape from the high-security area of the prison known 
as H Unit, which was opened in September 1991, Massie said. A preliminary 
investigation indicated that the inmates removed toilets from the 
back of their cells, which gave them access to a maintenance crawl 
space, prison spokeswoman Lee Mann said. They crawled through an air 
duct, made their way to the roof and finally reached the ground and 
climbed over two fences, she said. A third inmate attempted to escape 
but was caught between the two fences, Mann said. Authorities said 
Thomas escaped from the Oklahoma County Jail in 1994. Hoffman broke 
out of the Payne County Jail in 1998 and from a private prison in 
Cushing in 1997. Authorities in neighboring Texas are searching for 
seven convicts who escaped Dec. 13 from the maximum-security Connally 
Unit, 60 miles southeast of San Antonio. They have since been charged 
with the Christmas Eve slaying of a Dallas-area police officer.