in several parts of the united states today, more than half a million 
salvadorans living here were rushing to do what they could for their 
countrymen, who lived through saturday's earthquake. nearly 600 people 
died, perhaps hundreds more than that, when the earthquake hit in 
the ocean 64 miles off the coast. el salvador will have a terrible 
struggle to recover. abc's ron claiborne tonight is in santa tecla, 
just outside the capital. the suddenness and power of the earthquake 
was captured by salvadoran news crews. the power of the landslide 
was evident today from the air -- and from the ground. in santa tecla, 
as many as 600 people remain buried under the dirt and mud. last night, 
rescue workers found 22-year-old sergio moreno. he had been pinned 
under a mound of dirt and debris for 36 hours. this afternoon, officials 
said it's unlikely anyone else is still alive. the landslide struck 
so fast that the victims were trapped in their homes in a matter of 
seconds. it struck with such tremendous force that it crushed or mangled 
everything in its path. it also ravaged nearly everything in robert 
echeverria's life this morning. he came to look for his wife, his 
daughter and his granddaughter. all of them were in his house when 
the earthquake struck. "is there any hope she's alive?" he asked. 
"that's up to god." whenever echeverria tried to get to his home, 
authorities turned him away. too dangerous, they said. he says he 
will come back every day until he can search for his f in in some 
thaul country the earthquake damaged the capital and tiny cities. 
there have been 800 aftershocks. "we sleep standing up," said this 
woman. "we're waiting for the earth to open up." all across over el 
salvador, dazesurvivors have been returning to their homes to comb 
the rubble. walter bonilla came home today to find that soldiers had 
dug up some dirt-entrusted clothing -- a pair of jeans. bonilla's 
four brothers and sisters and an uncle died here somewhere. their 
bodies have not been unrecovered. there are so many of these stories. 
ron claiborne, abc news, santa tecla, el salvador.