This is VOA News Now coming to you from Washington. I am Tony Riggs. 
In Central America with the ground settling and time passing, rescuers 
say the chances of finding any more survivors from Saturday's earthquake 
are fading. Reporter Catherine Elton is in Las Colinas in Santa Tekla 
just South of the Salvadoran capital, arguably the community which 
was hardest hit by the Saturday earthquake. She accompanied a search 
and rescue team as they uncovered a number of bodies, but sadly she 
tells News Now's Tom Crosby, they found no one still alive. Today 
they pulled out nine bodies or only portions of bodies unfortunately 
and they are not finding any people alive and hope is fading very, 
very quickly that there're going to be anymore survivors found. The 
earth that's covered homes in its area in Las Colinas where there 
is a landslide, is quite compacted and the chance of finding someone 
alive is really almost impossible, although people always do have 
that hope. Now I understand you are with a Spanish rescue team. They 
came from Europe? They came from Europe, there're 75 Spaniards who 
came over . Some are specialized rescue teams that work with dogs, 
that when they are not working on earthquake scene they were in Turkey 
working on earthquake in Turkey, they also do Alpine rescue. And they've 
come here and they've come here with their dogs, a variety of different 
breeds of dogs and they are putting the dogs to work to sniff and 
to see if they can find signs of life or at least bodies to be able 
to hand over to family members who want to have something to bury. 
Now where you are of course, the search goes on, the hope of finding 
people alive as you say is fading. But there must be relatives and 
friends and others who are just shall we say hovering in the area 
watching, hoping and praying. That's absolutely right though I will 
say today that the authorities kept a lot more people off the rescue 
site, today was the landslide site I guess we could call it. Yesterday 
there were a lot more people out there today the authorities are really 
trying to keep people out. It's a race for time, to dig up the earth, 
there's dogs and there are a lot of these specialized workers and 
it's important that people aren't traipsing around much in the rubble. 
But yes, family members keep dropping by the morgue area to see if 
there's been bodies found that they can identify as perhaps one of 
their loved ones and they are hovering in nearby though like I said, 
hope is dwindling fast. What I did see today were some family members 
sifting through debris left behind in the house and personal effects, 
records, strips of negatives, blouses, dolls, things that they recognize 
and they know belong to their loved ones and packing some of it up 
and taking it away. But it must be a very emotionally wrenching thing 
for these people to go through? It is. It is really emotionally wrenching. 
It was incredibly moving, there is one man standing by a house where 
his mother and his younger sister disappeared, watching as the dogs 
ran over the dirt looking and he stood for a while clutching a baby 
doll that belonged to his sister and just sobbing. It was just too 
much and he's really while he said he still has little hope that they'll 
find them right now, he's really just being realistic and hoping that 
he can at least have their bodies to give them a burial. Catherine, 
amid the efforts to find bodies and hopefully somebody alive, there's 
aid I understand arriving in the country too? Yes, in the airport 
there is a lot of, an airport near the capital there's a lot of aid 
that's being flown in, medicines and there's been a call for coffins 
I've heard also, something that people are in desperate need of. Aid 
is flowing in, like I said more workers arrived on the scene. There's 
really been an outpouring of support and people are aware of it, the 
Salvadorans are highly aware of how much people are pulling together 
to try and fulfill the many needs that these survivors have here. 
Reporter Catherine Elton talking with News Now's Tom Crosby from earthquake 
ravaged El Salvador.