Thank you John, I am Tony Riggs bringing you this hour of VOA News 
Now. Ten years ago today President George Bush informed the American 
people that the Gulf War had begun. At the Pentagon, Defense Secretary 
Dick Cheney and General Colin Powell described the first wave of air 
attacks on Iraqi forces. Less than six weeks later the allies launched 
a four-day ground offensive that liberated Kuwait and forced Baghdad 
to accept strict sanctions and weapons inspections. Now one decade 
later, Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein remains in power presenting a challenge 
for incoming President George W Bush along with Vice President Cheney 
and Secretary of State Designate Powell. On this addition of Dateline 
we look at old foes and new challenges. US policy toward Iraq. here's 
Dave Arlington. According to veteran Iraq analyst Laurie Milroy, Saddam 
Hussein will be looking to get the better of George W Bush, the son 
of the man who claims to have vested him. Saddam is a vengeful character 
for whom the Gulf War never ever ended. In essence it is a rematch 
and Ms. Milroy says the new man in the White House must do what his 
father failed to, remove Saddam Hussein from power. She says step 
one would be to arm Iraqi opposition groups. The idea would be to 
replicate what the Kurds did in the North after the Gulf War. They 
liberated their territory, to do that in the rest of Iraq, perhaps 
protected by no fly zones or even the support of the US Air Force, 
obliterate that territory from the outside so Saddam becomes nothing 
but the Mayor of Baghdad and then the regime collapses. News reports 
say President Clinton last week approved a plan to have the Iraqi 
opposition distribute humanitarian aid and propaganda within Northern 
Iraq. But he has never fully implemented the so called Iraq Liberation 
Act passed by Congress in 1998, which authorized 97 million dollars 
in arms and military training for Iraqi rebels. Judith Kipper a Middle 
East expert associated with the Council on Foreign Relations and the 
Senate for Strategic and International Studies, says the act consists 
more of words than action. She says the opposition groups should be 
supported because they represent a different vision of Iraq's future. 
But in her view they do not have enough cohesion to mount any kind 
of effective military campaign. It's nice to talk about it, people 
get grand ideas, big illusions sitting in Washington DC but what is 
possible to do on the ground is quite different. But what some leading 
Republicans say implementation of the Iraq Liberation Act means, is 
military support for these rebel groups. Well so far nobody's given 
them any military support and I can't imagine that the next administration's 
going to do it either because there's no one to give it to. Judith 
Kipper advises the incoming administration to assess whether UN sanctions 
still provide the best way for containing Iraq militarily as support 
for the sanctions dwindles even among US allies. For some of the other 
countries that would like to do business in Iraq, who Iraq owes huge 
debts to, some of the UN Security Council members and who have a different 
view that sanctions haven't worked, ten years is enough and so it's 
time to end them. There are genuine differences among the countries 
even though the United States may want to continue sanctions, if its 
partners in the UN Security Council are not willing to do that there 
has to be an accommodation. Secretary of State designate Colin Powell 
says he wants to reenergize the sanctions and analyst Charles Dopher 
says it may be possible to get US allies and the Security Council 
to focus on the long term threat from Iraq instead of short term gains 
they may derive from an easing of sanctions. Mr. Dopher served for 
seven years as the second in command at the UN Special Commission 
on Iraq. He told me that the incoming Bush administration maybe much 
more forceful in dealing with Iraq and with US allies. You know the 
United States has worked largely with allies on the Iraq question 
largely through the Security Council. Many of these members of the 
Security Council have argued that the current regime is inevitable, 
that it is only a matter of pragmatism which causes them to have to 
work with them. The incoming administration is going to have to decide 
whether that in fact is the best that can be achieved. Bear in mind 
you know this regime has a track record, which is abominable. They've 
invaded countries, they treat their own population with no respect, 
they've used weapons of mass destruction against their own population. 
Do you want and can you accept over the long term this type of decision 
making apparatus over weapons of mass destruction, conventional forces 
and a significant portion of the world's oil market? We deploy a lot 
of forces in the region, we keep this regime contained within limits 
militarily and that costs us lot of money, I think a lot of our allies 
are getting a free ride here. Are we going to allow them to say that 
in effect this regime is legitimate and bear in mind they have a stake 
in preserving the current regime under the current circumstances and 
they're making money off it, the current regime. I am not in a position 
to understand fully the types of military commitments which would 
be required to replace it militarily but I think that's certainly 
something which has to be more fully explored. Hopefully other options 
can become more tenable but it's going to require a stronger commitment 
on the part of some of our friends and allies to participate. So would 
you say one big change from ten years ago is that there is no Gulf 
War coalition? I certainly think that the coalition which was formed 
to expel Iraq from Kuwait has disintegrated. The unifying principle 
there was very clear, it's much more difficult to get a coalition 
built around a potential risk. You say that Saddam Hussein has military 
and economic aims that would give Iraq weapons of mass destruction 
and dominance within OPEC, how far along is he? Well, I think he's 
pretty far along in the weapons of mass destruction. He has the capability, 
he has a pool of scientists and engineers who have demonstrated they 
can build these weapons. When we were operating we were not able to 
account for all of them, he's had now two years to reconstitute these 
efforts in an even stronger way. From their perspective they look 
at weapons and oil and economic tools, all as part of a continuance 
of power and influence. Their objective I believe is to displace the 
Saudis as sort of a key member of OPEC. You say that the attempt by 
the Security Council to disarm Iraq of its weapons of mass destruction 
was doomed from the beginning. Why do you say that? I make a comparison 
with the disarmament vision of the treaty after the First World War 
where the Allies had very stringent disarmament provisions which would 
be enforced on Germany. And what was found then and what was found 
I think in the case of Iraq is that you're asking the country to get 
rid of something which its leadership thinks is absolutely vital to 
its national security and yet you're empowering an international body 
with only basically cameras and pencils. And so while even in the 
case of Iraq there were stringent economic sanctions imposed on them, 
still they were willing to pay a very large price to conceal weapons 
and we were given no authority other than the backing of a very loose 
coalition, to enforce that. Basically what the Iraqis were saying 
is there're limits to what you can do because you, meaning the coalition, 
didn't occupy Iraq and they're quite right about that. Tariq Aziz 
would look at us and me in particular and say you're not the McArthur, 
you can't expect us to do all these things. Until last April Charles 
Dopher was Deputy Chairman of UNSCOM, the UN Special Commission on 
Iraq. A review of US policy toward Iraq may have to be put on hold 
if the situation between Israel and the Palestinians becomes even 
more unstable. And even there Saddam Hussein may play a role. He's 
been asking Iraqis to come forward to prepare for a holy war against 
Israel and claims more than six and a half million volunteers. As 
the Iraqi leader champions the Palestinian cause, Charles Dopher says 
he may also make it harder for the United States to find support in 
the Arab world. But another analyst says Iraq threatens the United 
States more directly. In her new book titled 'Study Of Revenge, Saddam 
Hussein's Unfinished War Against America', Laurie Milroy says the 
United States and its Allies are ignoring evidence that the Iraqi 
leader was behind the 1993 bombing of New York's World Trade Center 
and other terrorist attacks attempted against US interests. They don't 
see that Iraq is working with Muslim extremists including Osama Bin 
Laden. They don't understand that Bin Laden alone did not carry out 
the major acts of terrorism that are ascribed to him, most recently 
the bombing of the USS Cole. And until Iraq is punished for that terrorism 
it will continue. In her eyes the risk posed by Iraq grows day by 
day and year by year and now it is a risk that must be counted by 
a second US President named George Bush. For Dateline, I am Dave Arlington.