With the ground settling and time passing, rescuers said Monday that 
the chance of finding survivors from an earthquake that killed more 
than 400 people is slipping _ though one man was freed after using 
his cell phone to call for help. As many as 1,000 people remained 
buried beneath a mountain of rock and earth in the Las Colinas area 
here, some three miles west of the capital. Residents complained that 
the government allowed wealthy people to clear trees from the hillside, 
despite objections it could leave those below vulnerable to landslides. 
Saturday's magnitude-7.6 quake loosened that hillside, burying the 
middle-class neighborhood at its base and bringing down some of the 
mansions above. Although the largest number of deaths appeared to 
be in the Las Colinas neighborhood, the quake caused landslides across 
El Salvador, burying coffee workers and blocking roads. At least 403 
people were confirmed dead, although that figure was expected to rise. 
President Francisco Flores has sought 3,000 donated coffins from abroad. 
Six others were killed in neighboring Guatemala, and three more were 
feared dead. With nearly 5,000 houses destroyed and tens of thousands 
more damaged in El Salvador, many people were living with relatives 
or in shelters. Others who still had homes lacked basic services. 
Water service was cut to as many as half of the country's 6 million 
people, the Pan-American Health Organization said. The World Food 
Program began distributing food to 13,000 people and had enough to 
last two weeks. Officials planned to seek more donations. Aftershocks 
continued to rock the country on Monday, frightening residents and 
knocking more debris onto highways. Many towns were reachable only 
by helicopter, and little was known about damage or deaths in isolated 
communities. In Las Colinas, the city, environmentalists and residents 
had sued landowners and construction companies to stop the deforestation 
of the hillside. A judge had ruled against them, and angry residents 
on Monday argued that the resulting development had caused hundreds 
of deaths. ``What good does money do us if we are subjecting our children 
to something like this?'' asked Santa Tecla Mayor Oscar Ortiz. After 
two days of rescue efforts, officials pulled Sergio Moreno from beneath 
a pile of cinder blocks and earth late Sunday, raising hopes that 
more may be found alive. But kidney and heart failure left Moreno 
fighting for his life on Monday. While buried, Moreno had used his 
cell phone to call for help. After 31 hours waiting to be freed, he 
began to lose faith. At one point, anguished, he told rescuers: ``You 
stayed here to watch me die.'' Army Maj. Jose Miranda said there was 
little chance more survivors would be found, adding that the majority 
of those under the rubble who weren't killed instantly likely had 
already suffocated. ``Nonetheless, at 4 a.m. they pulled out a body 
that still had warm blood on it, so anything is possible,'' he said. 
Kathia Machaca has lost all hope that her parents and two oldest daughters 
will be found alive. Rescuers found the body of one of her children, 
5-year-old Kathia. But she has no information on the others. Pulling 
a child's sock from the mud, she said: ``I'm finding everything from 
the house except the most important things.'' She has stayed at the 
spot where her parents' house used to be since the quake, and she 
vowed not to leave. ``I won't move from here until they find the bodies,'' 
she said, weeping. Her daughter, who had been riding her bicycle when 
the earthquake struck, was found hugging a boy. ``Maybe she was afraid,'' 
Machaca said. She was afraid to see her husband, an electrician in 
Los Angeles who was scheduled to arrive on Monday. ``I don't know 
what I'll tell him,'' she said. ``This is hard.'' Her brother, Oscar, 
25, also lived at the house, but had been at work as a chauffeur when 
the quake struck. ``I ran home after the quake because I thought my 
mother would be worried about me, but ... '' he said, pausing with 
tears running down his cheeks. ``I felt like I was dying.''