President Clinton, who came of age during the height of the nation's 
civil rights struggles in the 1960s, marked Martin Luther King Jr.'s 
birthday underscoring his own dream that racial and ethnic divides 
in America will someday disappear. ``Part of Martin Luther King's 
dream was that somehow we would learn to `work together, pray together, 
struggle together, go to jail together, stand up for freedom together,''' 
Clinton said, quoting the civil rights leader who was assassinated 
in 1968. ``If I could leave America with one wish as I depart office, 
it would be that we become more the `One America' that we know we 
ought to be.'' Clinton marked the King holiday with a speech to about 
900 people at the University of the District of Columbia. President-elect 
Bush spoke at a Houston elementary school where he promised blacks 
that he would ``listen not only to the successful, but also to the 
suffering.'' Clinton likened efforts to unite the nation's diverse 
citizens to life itself. ``It's a journey, not a destination, and 
the main thing will always be whether we're still taking the trip,'' 
he said. Clinton also referred to a message he sent to Congress over 
the weekend that calls for improving the criminal justice system, 
restoring voting rights for people who complete their prison sentences 
and better educating American Indians. In the message, he also said 
Election Day should be declared a national holiday and called for 
a national election commission, led by former Presidents Ford and 
Carter, that would review balloting problems that surfaced in the 
November presidential election. Earlier in the day, Clinton, who signed 
the King Holiday and Service Act in 1994, establishing the day as 
a national day of service, went to a local senior center where he 
painted a pillar and told reporters that he hoped his successor's 
commitment to civil rights is not marked by partisanship. Minority 
citizens in America still face problems that must be addressed by 
the next administration, Clinton said as he rolled pumpkin-colored 
paint with AmeriCorps workers at the Greenleaf Senior Center. ``I 
hope it will be a commitment that goes way beyond party,'' Clinton 
said. The president also told reporters that he's considering clemency 
for several people who have completed their sentences and want their 
voting rights restored. He urged Congress to pass legislation similar 
to that in Arkansas that automatically restores voting rights after 
people have served their sentences. ``It would seem to me most American 
people agree that when you pay your debt to society and become law-abiding 
citizens,'' that voting rights should be restored, he said. ``I would 
really like to see it done. I think there's a lot of bipartisan interest 
in it.'' On Sunday, Clinton sent Congress his recommendations for 
improving race relations in the United States. In his message to lawmakers, 
Clinton called for an end to the ``intolerable practice'' of racial 
profiling. He also pressed Congress to act on a wide range of social 
issues, including raising the minimum wage, making more child care 
available and improving health care for working parents. Clinton also 
said Americans have an obligation to ensure that the death penalty 
is fairly administered. He said Congress should pass and Bush should 
sign legislation giving death-row prisoners greater access to DNA 
testing and to make sure they're represented by competent lawyers.