Hopes dwindled Monday for finding more survivors trapped under tons 
of earth in a suburb here after the earthquake on Saturday set off 
a landslide. The death toll increased. Officials said that by their 
estimates more than 500 people had been killed, and some reports said 
the number still missing was as high as 4,000. Many of the dead were 
in Las Colinas, a suburban neighborhood of Santa Tecla where a housing 
development was obliterated by a wall of earth that came crashing 
down a hillside. In the small southwestern town of Comasagua, an area 
that has been inaccessible to rescue workers, local reports said there 
had been a landslide that might have buried many more victims. The 
government of El Salvador asked Colombia to donate 3,000 coffins to 
help bury the dead. There was also widespread damage, clearly visible 
during helicopter flights by relief workers, in several towns in Usulutan 
Department, southeast of the capital. With many towns still without 
running water, public health specialists have begun to provide assistance 
and post-disaster counseling. In the town of San Agustin, the red 
tile or zinc panel roofs of many houses have partially or completely 
collapsed, exposing the interiors to the elements. On every block, 
one or more houses have been reduced to adobe and wood, and the interior 
of a church has crumbled behind its facade. Throughout the streets 
and fields, residents sought shelter under sheets of blue plastic 
from relief workers propped up by poles. ``Except for this area, I 
think some houses have held up well,'' said Kenneth Ellis, the director 
of the local mission of the U.S. Agency For International Development. 
``But I think that there is a strong disaster in Usulutan.'' Aftershocks 
continued throughout Sunday night, although they have grown shorter 
and weaker. At least five of the aftershocks since Saturday have had 
a magnitude of 5.4 or more. Rescue workers, including more specially 
trained units from other countries, continued to comb through the 
dirt and debris in Las Colinas Monday. The scene was more orderly 
and without as many gawkers or well-intentioned volunteers as during 
the first two days. Bullzdozers and backhoes pried loose clumps of 
earth, as rescue workers shoveled into crannies and craters in a vain 
search for survivors. Every so often, bodies were plucked out of the 
ground, placed on stretchers and taken away for identification by 
relatives or sent to a morgue. Concern over a series of tremors in 
Las Colinas led officials to evacuate the residents of several damaged 
houses on the edges of the huge landslide that buried about 80 percent 
of the neighborhood's houses. A scooped-out area on the hillside marked 
the place where the deadly landslide began. The police also secured 
a four-block zone in the area to protect household belongings, although 
reports of theft or looting have been virtually nonexistent. ``The 
most important thing right now is to save lives,'' said Interior Minister 
Mario Acosta Ortel. ``It is a matter of time before there is a new 
avalanche on the houses that have been left standing.'' Officials, 
who have begun to compile damage reports from about 80 percent of 
the country, said the temblor had left no part of the nation untouched, 
although loss of life was minimal compared with the number of deaths 
in Santa Tecla. Emergency shelters have been set up in health clinics. 
And bodies, some of them mangled from the effects of the quake and 
the bulldozers that worked to clear the area, have begun to be sent 
to morgues. A sprawling tent city has sprung up at El Cafetalon, a 
recreation field in Santa Tecla where volunteers have been sifting 
through piles of donated clothing and distributing food and setting 
up medical care. Two and three families huddle under each hastily 
built tent of plastic and split bamboo, some of them finding their 
way to the camp after having had to sleep outdoors since the quake. 
All day, television stations broadcast appeals for food and clothing, 
as well as reports from stranded residents of villages who have yet 
to be visited by relief workers or who are desperately trying to contact 
relatives. With rampant _ and unfounded _ rumors of tidal waves or 
worse, officials have issued appeals for calm. The United States has 
sent five helicopters from a U.S. military base in Honduras to assist 
with aerial damage assessments and recovery efforts. With emergency 
housing becoming a priority, U.S. relief officials met Monday morning 
with representatives of private aid groups to begin planning for rebuilding 
efforts. Local work has been hampered, rescuers and others said, by 
a lack of coordination among the various agencies and volunteers who 
showed up to help. The national emergency center got off to a slow 
start when it had to be relocated after its original site suffered 
structural and other damage. Communications have also been spotty, 
since cellular phone service has been intermittent in some areas. 
The damage from the earthquake may surpass that from Hurricane Mitch, 
which devastated much of Central America in 1998. It is a heavy burden 
on this country, which emerged from a 12-year civil war in the early 
1990s. ``It's not just Mitch,'' said Rose Likins, the ambassador from 
the United States. ``Many Salvadorans are still recovering from the 
conflict. The peace accords were signed in 1992, and Salvador is a 
model in making that a reality. Salvadorans are very resilient. I 
have every confidence they will weather this as they have other crises.'' 
Maria Arely Abrego and her four children now wonder where they will 
go after their house collapsed on Saturday. They spent Sunday night 
outdoors, before setting up a makeshift home on a Santa Tecla soccer 
field. ``I really have no idea what we are going to do,'' she said. 
``Maybe we can go back and rebuild the house, but I think there isn't 
any opportunity for us there, so maybe we should do something different.'' 
Nearby, her 9-year-old son, Luciano, knew one thing was already going 
to be different. ``There won't be any football games this Sunday,'' 
he said, chomping on a piece of chocolate.