As the death toll in a devastating earthquake topped 600 and continued 
to climb, authorities shifted their attention from searching for trapped 
survivors to coping with the growing number of corpses. El Salvador's 
president said 3,000 coffins were expected to arrive from Colombia 
on Tuesday, and workers continued to bury unidentified bodies in common 
graves at Santa Tecla's municipal cemetery. As information began to 
trickle in from the countryside, where hundreds of communities remain 
almost completely cut off from the outside world, the president said 
workers had recovered 609 bodies in El Salvador and were searching 
for hundreds more. At least six people were killed in neighboring 
Guatemala. President Francisco Flores said 2,412 people were injured 
and more than 45,000 houses were damaged or destroyed in Saturday's 
magnitude-7.6 quake. In a televised address to the nation Monday night, 
he said he expected the death toll to rise significantly and that 
3,000 coffins would arrive Tuesday from Colombia, a major exporter 
of coffins in the region. ``We must face this phenomenon with serenity 
and with hope,'' he said. ``We have the capacity to face what has 
happened, but right now the most important thing is solidarity with 
the people who need it most.'' Residents of Las Colinas, a neighborhood 
of Santa Tecla, had pleaded with Congress and gone to the Supreme 
Court _ without success _ to block the construction of mansions on 
the hillside above them, saying the lack of ground cover left those 
below vulnerable to landslides. Saturday's quake loosened that hillside, 
sending dirt raining on the homes below and bringing down some of 
the mansions. Angry residents on Monday argued that the resulting 
development had caused hundreds of deaths. ``What good does money 
do us if we are subjecting our children to something like this?'' 
asked Santa Tecla Mayor Oscar Ortiz. As bulldozers, rescue workers 
and a dwindling number of locals continued to dig into the mountain 
of dirt that buried Santa Tecla, Raquel Barrera waited for authorities 
to help her pull the newly uncovered bodies of her husband and 12-year-old 
son from the ground Monday. ``This is a nightmare. I can't believe 
this is happening,'' said Barrera, whose husband was a well-known 
professional baseball player in El Salvador. ``I left them alive, 
and now look, they're underneath all this.'' Elsewhere, rescue workers 
from around the world used sniffer dogs to continue the search for 
live victims. But the settling ground below their feet made painstakingly 
slow digging even more difficult. Army Maj. Jose Miranda said there 
was little chance more survivors would be found. He said the majority 
of those under the rubble who weren't killed instantly likely had 
already suffocated. But, he said, ``they pulled out a body that still 
had warm blood on it, so anything is possible.'' Although the largest 
number of deaths appeared to be in Las Colinas, the quake caused 185 
landslides across El Salvador, burying anyone who couldn't get out 
of the way fast enough and blocking hundreds of roads. Police said 
nearly 18,000 people had been evacuated from dangerous areas. Many 
were living with relatives or in shelters. Others who still had homes 
lacked basic services. Water service was cut to as many as half of 
the country's 6 million people, the Pan-American Health Organization 
said. ``We are doing all we can to strengthen the hopes of our countrymen,'' 
Ortiz said. ``But we are a nation of very strong people and we will 
need that strength now.'' Aftershocks continued to rock the country, 
terrifying residents and knocking more debris onto highways. Many 
towns were reachable only by helicopter, and little was known about 
damage or deaths in isolated communities. ``I am totally out on the 
street,'' Carmelo Lopez, whose house and four family members were 
buried in a landslide that wiped out a coffee plantation outside of 
San Salvador. ``I am alone.''