As the death toll in El Salvador's devastating earthquake topped 600 
and continued to climb, authorities made a final push to find trapped 
survivors Tuesday and shifted their attention to coping with the growing 
number of corpses. El Salvador's president said 3,000 coffins were 
to arrive from Colombia, and workers were burying unidentified bodies 
in common graves at a cemetery in this devastated town. The chances 
of anyone else emerging from the rubble alive appeared slim. Meanwhile, 
finger-pointing began: In Santa Tecla, where a mountainside buried 
a whole neighborhood, environmental activists and authorities said 
deforestation _ and greed _ contributed to the disaster. Residents 
of the buried neighborhood, Las Colinas, had pleaded with Congress 
and the Supreme Court to block the construction of mansions on the 
hillside above them, saying the lack of ground cover left those below 
vulnerable to landslides. Their pleas were ignored, and construction 
continued. Saturday's 7.6-magnitude quake loosened that hillside, 
sending dirt raining on the homes below and bringing down some of 
the mansions. Angry residents argued Monday that the development had 
caused hundreds of deaths. ``What good does money do us if we are 
subjecting our children to something like this?'' Santa Tecla Mayor 
Oscar Ortiz asked. Ecologist Ricardo Navarro accused members of Congress 
and government officials of negligence for failing to stop the deforestation. 
``Several urbanization projects were born ... and there you have the 
results, hundreds of deaths,'' he said. In Santa Tecla on Tuesday, 
rescuers cleared the area where the mountainside buried the neighborhood. 
In the silence, Taiwanese technicians and Spanish rescuers with sniffer 
dogs combed the area to make sure nobody was still alive beneath ground. 
They then planned to use bulldozers to remove the mud and recover 
the remaining bodies, believed to be in the hundreds. The only rescue 
was of a German Shepherd named Bobby, who appeared to be in good shape. 
Bobby's owner, who lost his mother and his brother, led the dog away. 
As information began to trickle in from the countryside, where hundreds 
of communities remain almost completely cut off from the outside world, 
President Francisco Flores said workers had recovered 609 bodies in 
El Salvador and were searching for hundreds more. At least six people 
were killed in neighboring Guatemala. Flores said 2,412 people were 
injured and more than 45,000 houses were damaged or destroyed in Saturday's 
quake. In a televised address to the nation Monday night, Flores said 
he expected the death toll to rise significantly. He said thousands 
of coffins were on their way from Colombia. A Colombian disaster official, 
however, said he had no knowledge of a government effort to send coffins. 
``We must face this phenomenon with serenity and with hope,'' Flores 
said. ``We have the capacity to face what has happened, but right 
now the most important thing is solidarity with the people who need 
it most.'' In Santa Tecla on Monday, Raquel Barrera waited for authorities 
to help her pull the newly uncovered bodies of her husband and 12-year-old 
son from the ground. ``This is a nightmare. I can't believe this is 
happening,'' said Barrera, whose husband was a well-known professional 
baseball player in El Salvador. ``I left them alive, and now look, 
they're underneath all this.'' Although the largest number of deaths 
appeared to be in Las Colinas, the quake caused 185 landslides across 
El Salvador, burying anyone who couldn't get out of the way fast enough 
and blocking hundreds of roads. Police said nearly 18,000 people had 
been evacuated from dangerous areas. Many were living with relatives 
or in shelters. Others who still had homes lacked basic services. 
Water service was cut to as many as half of the country's 6 million 
people, the Pan-American Health Organization said. ``We are doing 
all we can to strengthen the hopes of our countrymen,'' Ortiz said. 
``But we are a nation of very strong people and we will need that 
strength now.'' Aftershocks continued to rock the country, terrifying 
residents and knocking more debris onto highways. Two strong tremors 
shook many out of bed on Tuesday morning. Many towns were reachable 
only by helicopter, and little was known about damage or deaths in 
isolated communities. ``I am totally out on the street,'' Carmelo 
Lopez, whose house and four family members were buried in a landslide 
that wiped out a coffee plantation outside of San Salvador. ``I am 
alone.''