nbc news "in depth" tonight -- a month after seven dangerous convicts 
escaped from a texas prison, another daring jailbreak. this one in 
oklahoma. two men, one a convicted rapist and murderer on the run 
from authorities who describe them tonight as dangerous and desperate. 
with the latest on both these daring escapes, here's nbc's jim cummins, 
"in depth." the authorities tonight are stunned by a daring breakout 
from one of the most tightly controlled prisons in america. this is 
the first time that anybody escaped from "h" unit, that was opened 
in 1991. that's our high-security unit here. the "h" unit, for "high-max," 
in mcalester, oklahoma -- an underground, electronically controlled 
cellblock once labeled as "cruel and degrading" by amnesty international. 
it houses 300 of the most dangerous criminals in oklahoma, including 
james thomas, serving a life sentence plus 400 years for the rape 
and murder of an 81-year-old woman, and willie hoffman, doing 20 years 
for kidnapping. guards say before dawn, thomas, hoffman and a third 
inmate remove toilets from the back of three cells. they've already 
sawed through steel reinforcement bars, using dental floss and ajax 
detergent. they crawl through an air duct and climb two fences with 
razor wire. the third inmate gets hung up on the wire and is captured 
while the other two, thomas and hoffman, get away. police say they 
confront two women with a knife and steal $65 and their car. we don't 
know where they are at this point, and having access to that vehicle, 
they could be almost anywhere. so we certainly ask people to be cautious 
and be alert. they can go in any direction from mcalester, which sits 
in the heart of rural oklahoma. at one point, police search a freight 
train, passing through town, after repor of two strangers aboard. 
department of corrections officers walked the entirety of the train, 
and myself and two other officers checked the engine compartments. 
and we found nothing. that is not reassuring for jeannie little, a 
local resident. it's kinda scary. but i've lived here all my life, 
and i really don't think that much about it, just try to keep the 
doors locked and stay in, where they can't get in. meanwhile, that 
other manhunt, for seven escaped convicts, intensifies here in texas. 
police report hundreds of tips, dozens of possible sightings. but 
so far, nobody captured. two killers, two armed robbers, a child beater, 
a serial rapist and a burglar. and all of them are suspected of killing 
a police officer after their escape. the latest tip? two men who fit 
the descriptions of keith newbury and randy halprin are spotted at 
a gas station north of houston. police are scrutinizing a surveillance 
tape. if they are hiding, if they are still laid under somewhere, 
when they stick their head out, they're going to be seen. they're 
going to be reported. we're going to have them in custody. reporter: 
overnight, a vij it at the state capitol to show support for texas 
prison guards. today, lawmakers begin their investigation into this 
prison escape and the reward for information leading to the arrest 
for the texas 7 is now $440,000. jim cummins, nbc news, dallas.