This is The World. I am Lisa Mullins. El Salvador is still a long 
way from recovery today. President Francisco Flores warned that the 
tragedy that started Saturday with a massive earthquake is still unfolding. 
So far about 600 bodies have been recovered, but hundreds more are 
missing and the tremor has left many populated hillside unstable, 
which means residents now risk more catastrophic landslides. About 
20,000 people have been evacuated so far from danger zones. But President 
Flores says many more people still need to be moved to safety. Joseph 
Schultz is with the Disaster Response Team of the US Agency for International 
Development. He is now in San Salvador. Mr. Schultz, can you describe 
the conditions there today? The search and rescue efforts are ongoing 
particularly in Santo Takla, which is a suburb, a small town, small 
community outside of the capital San Salvador. The largest area of 
the landslide damage is in Las Colinas. Saturday morning when the 
earthquake occurred the mountainside rushed down the side of the mountain 
and covered up to a height of about a 2-storey building, 300 to 400 
homes. Have the rescue efforts waned then at all or is there still 
an attempt at ... In addition to the US AID Disaster Response Team 
we have people in from all over the world. There are search and rescue 
teams from Mexico, from Nicaragua, from Guatemala, a team came in 
from Spain, a team came in from Taiwan. It's a very international 
effort to help El Salvador and help respond to this disaster. The 
search and rescue efforts have been going on pretty much 24-hours 
a day since the earthquake. Teams were there first light in the morning, 
worked till light goes down. At night they fire generators and have 
floodlights on. Now I know Joseph that you woke up to an after shock 
early this morning. Was that followed by others and are those after 
shocks hampering the rescue efforts at all? Yeah, I indeed was woken 
up this morning about 5 o'clock by an after shock. I've heard reports 
that there have been anywhere from several hundreds of after shocks 
since Saturday's earthquake of varying degrees. Nothing which has 
caused severe additional damage. Nothing near the level of the original 
earthquake on Saturday. I think everybody expects that there will 
be tremors, but still I would think that they also must exaggerate 
the problem and induce a certain amount of panic among the survivors 
there. There is really not a lot of widespread panic. The Salvadorians 
are remarkably and I am constantly impressed by their ability to cope 
with this. You know, as soon as the disaster hit, people were in digging 
or in rescuing anyone and trying to fix their homes or fixing their 
roofs. You know, people do what they need to do to strive and to get 
on. The efforts are ongoing and will continue for several days at 
least. How difficult is it to get done what you need to do, be a part 
of the survival effort or to try and get clothing and food to some 
of the people around that area? The biggest challenge which we are 
addressing right now and I believe successfully with the landslides, 
a lot of the roads out of the city to out of the outlined towns and 
other parts of the country were cut off. So we couldn't get in to 
do assessments, disaster assessments. We couldn't get in to deliver 
supplies. We were initially doing airdrops of food and emergency supplies 
and now, as you know, we are a couple of days out. Roads are starting 
to open up, so we are able to take trucks in to the outline communities 
that have been affected. Things are moving. You know, we are trying 
to get as much aid to the right places and the right kind of relief 
supplies, the right kind of food to the most affected populations. 
What are you preparing for now coming up in the next couple of days? 
What do you expect to be caught on today? In the next couple of days 
we are intensifying our efforts of both air lifting and getting supplies 
out into outlying areas. The search and rescue effort in Los Calinas 
in South of Tekla is very comprehensive. I don't have a number of 
how many people are involved, but there are dozens and dozens if not 
hundreds of people on the ground there at any given time digging through 
the dirt essentially that piled up. You know, yards and yards of dirt 
covered the town, but apparently now as getting accurate assessments 
from the countryside from outside the capital up to the areas that 
we know were cut off by Sun, cut of by road the first two days. So 
our part is making sure that communities are getting the food they 
need, are getting the supplies they need and that people are healthy 
and are able to get through the next couple of weeks. Joseph Schultz 
with the Disaster Response Team of the US Agency for International 
Development in San Salvador. Thank you very much for taking the time 
to talk to us. Thank you.