Not many Salvadorians who were near the epicenter of the quake survived, 
but some did and correspondent Mike Lanchin has the story of one of 
them. In the Intensive Care Unit of a city hospital, a rare survivor 
from Saturday's giant landslide is fighting for his life. Doctors 
crowd around 22 year-old Serheo Morrano, just hours after he was pulled 
alive from the mud. Surgeon Edwardo Castill says he can't believe 
the young man is still alive. This is nothing short of a miracle that 
he survived so long. We have seen so many other people in the same 
conditions who haven't had the same luck. It really is a miracle he 
has got this far. During the 33 hours he was trapped underground, 
Serheo suffered severe loss of blood. His left leg is badly damaged 
and his pelvis is broken. According to Dr. Castill, he needs major 
surgery and probably will lose both legs. Serheo was found alive trapped 
inside his house on Saturday night by rescue workers digging at this 
site of the giant mudslide caused by the earthquake. He was under 
10 feet of mud, pinned down by huge beams. Finding him alive was a 
rare breakthrough for the searchers. Jose Espehello is a Mexican rescue 
worker who squeezed into the ruins to help set him free. For hours 
on end Jose says he lay close to the trapped man encouraging him to 
hold on, telling him that it wouldn't be too long before he was freed. 
As the ground around him continued to move with the after shocks of 
the earthquake, Jose says that the young man begged him to speed up 
the rescue operation. Eventually, after more than 33 hours underground, 
he was pulled to the surface unconscious but alive. Jose, a veteran 
of natural disasters, says that witnessing Serheo's will to live during 
the harrowing underground ordeal has given all those involved in this 
rescue operation a new sense of hope. But as the hours pass in the 
mammoth rescue operation in El Salvador, the possibility of finding 
more survivors in the mud is rapidly diminishing. For The World, I 
am Mike Lanchin in San Salvador.