Bulldozers plowed through the wreckage of an earthquake-driven landslide 
Tuesday after sniffer dogs and heartbeat detectors failed in a final, 
desperate attempt to locate any more survivors in this Salvadoran 
town. The only one pulled alive from the rubble was a German shepherd 
mix named Bobby. His owner, who lost his mother and brother in the 
quake, led the dog away with what few belongings he could salvage 
before the earth movers trundled in. A man who was pulled out alive 
31 hours after the earthquake and had come to symbolize hope in a 
nation that has little, died Tuesday night at a hospital. Doctors 
had amputated Sergio Moreno's legs, and his heart and kidney failed. 
The death toll rose to 683 and was expected to continue rising as 
authorities reach communities isolated by landslides. Officials said 
more than 2,500 people were injured by Saturday's quake, and nearly 
45,000 had to be evacuated. On Tuesday, President Francisco Flores 
called on the more than 1 million Salvadorans living in the United 
States to help raise money for reconstruction. Comasagua, a city 17 
miles west of the capital that was rendered inaccessible by landslides, 
had been reduced to a jumble of mangled houses, although only six 
people were reported dead there. Hungry residents swarmed around U.S. 
Army helicopters bringing food, water and medicine. ``All we have 
is God and the helicopter that brings food,'' said Fidelia Guardao. 
The soldiers loaded the food onto trucks, which rumbled into the destroyed 
downtown where makeshift kitchens awaited the corn, rice and canned 
fish. ``We're doing things to help people out,'' said Sgt. Bill Cagle 
of Carson, Calif. ``I love this stuff.'' There was little hope that 
anyone would be found alive in the Las Colinas neighborhood just outside 
the capital, where the magnitude-7.6 quake buried hundreds of houses. 
Still, Taiwanese rescuers combed the partially excavated area with 
equipment designed to detect heartbeats, and Spanish and Mexican volunteers 
followed dogs sniffing for signs of life buried in the mounds. After 
a few hours, the search ended unsuccessfully. Bulldozers and earth 
movers moved in to tear through the dirt and debris, searching for 
bodies and filling dump trucks lined up for several blocks. Nearly 
350 cadavers have been pulled from the middle-class neighborhood that 
was buried when a nearby hillside collapsed, and officials were still 
finding more amid wrecked cars and dirt-packed houses. Officials had 
counted 677 bodies in El Salvador and at least six more in Guatemala. 
Many of the dead were being buried in common graves at the municipal 
cemetery in this devastated town just outside San Salvador. A magnitude-5.7 
tremor _ the strongest aftershock since Saturday _ rocked the capital 
before dawn Tuesday, panicking residents still sleeping outside and 
sending others charging into the street. No major damage or injuries 
were reported. With more than 46,000 houses damaged or destroyed Saturday, 
Nicaragua's president visited neighboring El Salvador to appeal for 
international aid. ``Hopefully the aid will not only come now, but 
also in the reconstruction phase,'' he said. Blocked from entering 
the Las Colinas neighborhood where her niece's house was buried, Sonia 
Olivo waited outside barricades Tuesday for word on the excavation's 
progress. Although her niece was able to run out of the house in time 
to avoid being buried alive, other relatives weren't as lucky. The 
two daughters of another niece were found dead Sunday in a nearby 
house, wrapped in the arms of the woman who cared for them. ``We are 
just waiting to see if there is a possibility of finding anything,'' 
she said. With entire families lost in the landslide, many belongings 
lay on the muddy expanse, likely to remain unclaimed forever. Next 
to the remains of one house that had been partially dug out of the 
mud lay a photo album covered in pink taffeta, lace and dirt. Photos 
spilling out showed a smiling teen-age girl standing next to a cake 
that read: ``Happy 15th Birthday Natalia!'' Others showed her laughing 
with icing smeared on her face, and dancing with a man who appeared 
to be her father. Tucked in the back were handwritten birthday wishes. 
``May God bless you and keep you always. Goodbye with lots of love,'' 
read one note, dated June 6, 1999. Another read: ``May you have a 
Happy Birthday and many more years to come.'' Scattered a few feet 
away were dirty pages of chemistry homework and several children's 
shoes. Fidel Guzman returned Tuesday to look for anything he could 
salvage from his parent's house, and was surprised to find that Mexican 
volunteers had just found their dog, Bobby. His father had been rescued 
earlier from the house, but the bodies of his mother and brother were 
found later. The dirty, black dog, a piece of rope tied around his 
neck, circled Guzman nervously but otherwise appeared in good shape. 
``I didn't think I'd find him alive, but there he was,'' Guzman said, 
a long florescent lightbulb tucked under his arm.