Although 682 people had already lost their lives to this weekend's 
earthquake, it was the 683rd death that brought the sense of tragedy 
home to the shocked people of El Salvador. Sergio Moreno, a 22-year-old 
musician who was pulled alive from the rubble after spending 31 hours 
entombed under cinderblocks and dirt, died late Tuesday at a hospital. 
His near-miraculous rescue had captured Salvadorans, providing a ray 
of hope amid the despair. After calling for help from beneath the 
rubble with a cellular phone, rescuers worked more than two days to 
free him. But his heart and kidneys failed shortly after he was rescued. 
Doctors revived him and later amputated his legs, but were unable 
to save him. Local television stations broke away from regular programming 
to report his death. Even as signs emerged that everyday life was 
returning after the earthquake _ lines snaked around the block at 
newly reopened banks in the capital _ the isolated countryside largely 
stood still in hunger and mourning. In Las Colinas, a neighborhood 
near San Salvador that was buried by a landslide, earth movers dug 
at the mountain of dirt and a few crews looked for bodies on Wednesday 
morning. But they worked more slowly, the sense of urgency gone with 
the hope of finding survivors. Seventeen more corpses were recovered 
Tuesday night, boosting the national death toll to 683. The quake 
also killed six people in neighboring Guatemala. More than 2,500 people 
were injured and nearly 45,000 others were evacuated. In many places, 
authorities were overwhelmed by the sheer number of bodies. Many were 
buried in a long pit at Santa Tecla's municipal cemetery. Marcela 
Pena, 31, remained at the spot where her house once stood, looking 
for her 14-year-old daughter Betrisia. She said she has been at the 
morgue and the cemetery to look for her, but hasn't found her. ``I 
see the bodies and I am sad,'' she said Wednesday. ``But there are 
too many bodies to be sad. I have grown accustomed to death.'' Many 
Salvadorans living in the United States began arriving on flights 
Wednesday after days of desperation trying to get home. In San Salvador, 
people waited for hours to withdraw cash at newly reopened banks, 
bottled water was snatched off of shelves as quickly as it could be 
restocked and several restaurants and businesses opened their doors 
offering scaled-back menus and services. Much of the countryside appeared 
further from recovery. In Comasagua, a city 17 miles west of the capital 
where more than 140 people were killed and roads were rendered impassable 
by landslides, hungry residents swarmed around U.S. Army helicopters 
bringing food, water and medicine. ``All we have is God and the helicopter 
that brings food,'' said housewife Fidelia Guardao. Virtually all 
businesses remained shut in Armenia, a working-class town of 30,000 
people 25 miles from the capital where 124 people died. Truckloads 
of fruit began rumbling into town, allowing the outdoor central market 
to sell limited amounts of food. There will be no meat here for some 
time, however, because the local slaughterhouse collapsed in the quake, 
killing a watchman and a pen full of scrawny cows. Electricity has 
been restored, but the only water to be found came from dusty puddles 
in the middle of buckled streets. Jose Vallentin and nine other men 
from the dirt-poor neighborhood of San Antonio set out walking along 
the highway Tuesday in search of food and drinking water. The subsistence 
apple farmer had heard rumors there were large aid trucks distributing 
supplies outside a shantytown of squatters on a highway shoulder 10 
miles away. The rumors were true, but the mammoth Red Cross truck 
pulled away just as the group was arriving. All the food was gone, 
they were told. They were given three Gatorade bottles filled with 
purified water. Vallentin's share was about a quarter of a bottle. 
When they returned home, a group of volunteers in a rusty yellow pickup 
was handing out plastic plates heaping with black beans and tortillas. 
Vallentin's wife, Rosa, had braved a two-hour line to bring him a 
plate of food. Vallentin walked into what was left of his home _ a 
mountain of smashed roofing tile flanked by two sloping brick walls. 
His daughter, 7-year-old Veronica, was sitting on the cardboard box 
that now doubles as her bed. She had trouble opening the bottle's 
lid. He helped her open it and watched as she took a long drink. When 
she finished all the water was gone. ``Today we eat,'' Vallentin said, 
smiling at Rosa. ``We can find something to drink tomorrow.''