Both defending champions, Americans Andre Agassi and Lindsey Davenport 
have advanced to the third round of the Australian Open tennis tournament 
in Melbourne. The sixth seeded Agassi scored a straight sets win over 
fellow American Paul Goldstein on Wednesday. Davenport who is seeded 
second in the women's draw needed three sets to beat Greta Arn of 
Germany. The Americans say she was not at her best. I felt just a 
little tired and sluggish today and I don't know if it's for finishing 
late the other night and maybe having a little bit of a let down after 
a match that had a lot of hype on Monday. But for whatever reason 
just didn't play as well as I can play. Elsewhere in men's play second 
seeded US Open winner Marat Safine of Russia defeated Andre Pable 
of Romania in four sets. Pete Sampras of the United States the third 
seed also needed four sets to overcome Bodon Oloroc of the Czech Republic 
but eight seeded Tim Henman of Britain defeated Ecuador's Nicholas 
Lipente in straight sets. Other men seeds advancing were Australian 
Patrick Rafter, Cedric Pioline of France and Slovakian Dominic Arbady 
but number nine one Carlos Ferraro of Spain was the first men seed 
to fall losing in five sets to Andrew Healy of Australia. In the women's 
draw fourth seeded Monica Seles of the United States beat Miroslava 
Varonec of Switzerland 6-2, 6-3. Seles said she needed time to get 
her game going. This really was kind of my first match because I was 
unfortunate in the first round. I might well have to be faster first 
game. So kind of I feel for me it's one of the first round. Just feeling 
okay, I mean they are still early rounds, just want to get through 
them and then just take it at a time. Fifth seeded Conchita Martinez 
of Spain was the big upset victim of the day as Emmanuel Galiardi 
of Switzerland beat her 5-7, 6-3, 8-6. Anna Kournikova of Russia also 
advanced. Other women seeds moving into the third round included American 
Jennifer Capriati, Sandrine Testu of France and Kim Clisters of Belgium.