Even as the sharp and pointed questioning of John Ashcroft by his 
Senate inquisitors went on for a second day Wednesday, an array of 
far less confrontational confirmation hearings were also playing out 
all across the Senate side of Capitol Hill. There was Sen. Hillary 
Rodham Clinton of New York smiling at Gov. Christie Whitman of New 
Jersey, the designee to run the Environmental Protection Agency, as 
a Republican colleague, Sen. George V. Voinovich of Ohio, praised 
the governor for her work on children's issues. There was retired 
Gen. Colin L. Powell, Bush's choice for secretary of state being asked 
by Democrats to introduce his wife, Alma, to a round of applause. 
The scenes captured all the conflicting impulses in the nation's capital 
three days before George W. Bush's inauguration as the 43rd president, 
the hopes for cooperation across party lines to pass legislation on 
education, tax cuts and health care and the equally strong possibility 
of continued gridlock and sharp partisan conflict. The struggle over 
Ashcroft to serve in the powerful post of attorney general is only 
the first of many battles to come at this moment of extraordinary, 
down-the-middle political division in the country as each party fights 
to gain the upper hand. Gale Norton, Bush's selection for interior 
secretary, a strong proponent of property rights, is also expected 
to come under withering fire at her hearing on Thursday. What is at 
stake is not just Bush's ability to choose a Cabinet of his own ideological 
liking, not just the Democrats' efforts to ensure that laws they support 
are enforced, but the very definition and image of the competing political 
parties. With their sharp questioning, Democrats were putting back 
on the front burner the hot-button cultural issues that Bush successfully 
played down or muffled in the presidential campaign _like abortion, 
gun control and affirmative action. ``This is really about George 
Bush more than about John Ashcroft,'' Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic 
strategist, said. ``This is an experience that helps define George 
W. Bush as someone who chose not to pursue a moderate and consensual 
course as he promised to do. He had the choice to try to rise above 
political divisions, and instead he nominated somebody who put him 
right in the middle of the political divisions.'' Republicans were 
fighting back by trying to make Ashcroft's opponents look like unreasonable 
ideologues and obstructionists. Sen. Charles E. Grassley, R-Iowa, 
called the interest groups mobilized against Ashcroft a ``mob of extremists.'' 
Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz, at one point turned the hearing's attention 
away from Ashcroft to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass, who was asking 
some of the most pointed questions. For all the passion and fire, 
only two of Bush's 14 Cabinet nominees _ Ashcroft and Norton _ are 
controversial, and even they are likely to be confirmed, baring any 
unexpected personal disclosure. (Another Cabinet nominee, Linda Chavez, 
already withdrew her name for labor secretary after questions were 
raised about her harboring an illegal immigrant.) While there have 
been ugly nomination battles at the beginning of other administrations, 
none of them has played out in a Senate that is so finely balanced 
and so easily tipped by partisan and ideological winds. Many of the 
day's confirmation hearings were love fests, showing the possibility 
of good will on policy. Indeed, some optimists argued that even an 
unusually bitter fight over Ashcroft, an ardent social conservative, 
might not negate the possibility of finding a middle ground on legislation; 
in fact, it could even make it easier for Bush to reach beyond his 
conservative Republican base when it comes time to work with Congress 
on issues. ``He might be able to use the political capital gained 
in the Ashcroft fight to make compromises in the future with the Democrats,'' 
said Marshall Wittmann, a congressional analyst who once worked for 
the Christian Coalition. ``To fight periodic fights like this keeps 
the base happy and content.'' But Bush comes into office with little 
political capital to spare because of his loss of the popular vote 
in the election. And the question is how much these early confirmation 
battles will cost him. Bush campaigned for more than a year against 
the ways of Washington and on pledges to end once and for all ``the 
war-room mentality, the hostile stance, then harsh charges.'' Yet 
he set off the same kind of partisan fight he deplored even before 
he was formally sworn in. Moreover, the racial issues surfacing in 
Ashcroft's confirmation hearings threatened to overshadow Bush's efforts 
to reach out through a racially diverse Cabinet, and to expose once 
again the black anger over the election in Florida and the charges 
of that many black voters in Florida were disenfranchised. In his 
sharp exchange with Kyl Wednesday, Kennedy insisted that questions 
about Ashcroft's opposition to a school desegregation plan in Missouri 
and his opposition to certain voter registration efforts in largely 
black St. Louis could not be more essential. ``That happens to be 
relevant, senator,'' Kennedy told Kyl, ``because we have just gone 
through a national debate and discussion and focus on the question 
of whether minorities are going to be able to vote.'' It is not clear 
how much Bush and his advisers anticipated the intensity of the clash 
that would be set off by his nomination of Ashcroft. Bush's first 
choice for the job was his close friend, Marc Racicot, the governor 
of Montana who emerged as a high-profile defender during the five-week 
post-election struggle over the Florida vote count. Conservatives 
were unhappy with that choice, and Racicot ultimately decided he did 
not want the job. Only then did Bush turn to Ashcroft, a just defeated 
Missouri senator and long-time conservative warrior. Bush's advisers 
argued that Ashcroft would be a safe choice because senators grant 
courtesy to one of their own, and because Ashcroft had been gracious 
when he conceded defeat in November to Jean Carnahan, the widow of 
his Senate opponent. (The late Gov. Mel Carnahan, who was running 
against Ashcroft, was killed a few weeks before election day in a 
plane crash. Carnahan's name remained on the ballot, and he won. His 
wife was then named to the Senate seat.) Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, 
R-Texas, emphasized that point this week, saying, ``The people of 
America saw the true heart of John Ashcroft the way he handled the 
tragic death of Mel Carnahan.'' But that was to misunderstand how 
much this nomination would come to be the focus of all the anger remaining 
from the way that the 2000 election ended. ``The issue of race and 
civil rights are very raw because of the election, and Ashcroft's 
nomination just rubs salt into that already raw wound,'' said Mark 
Mellman, a Democratic strategist. Republicans put it differently. 
One of Bush's advisers said what had not been anticipated was the 
Democrats' decision to use this nomination as a ``political organizing 
tool'' to stoke the anger of their base. Rep. Rob Portman, R-Ohio, 
said, ``I think it has surprised them a little bit frankly that the 
Democrats have used race in the way that they have in this nomination.'' 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) It is possible that the partisan sniping of these 
past few days will be short-lived and that soon Congress and Bush 
will be taking up their most fertile ground for compromise _ education 
issues. Democrats recently gave an especially warm welcome to Roderick 
Paige, the soon-to-be education secretary. They are also expected 
to easily approve Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin to head the 
Department of Health and Human Services. Health care is an area where 
both Democrats and Republicans are anxious to see legislation. But, 
inevitably, confirmation fights this bitter add a new grudge to the 
long list of grievances between the parties. As he rose to Ashcroft's 
defense Wednesday afternoon, Sen. Bob Smith, R-N.H., protested, ``I 
thought we were going to start off in a spirit of bipartisanship this 
year.''