On Jan. 12, a gas station clerk in Fillmore, Utah, suspected that 
three customers were actually members of the gang of escaped fugitives 
now known as ``the Texas Seven.'' The clerk scribbled down their license 
plate number, and the police set up roadblocks. Soon, officers pulled 
over a van with a matching plate. At about the same time roughly 1,300 
miles away, FBI agents were watching a house in Jackson, Miss. Federal 
officials say two independent tipsters, seemingly credible, had reported 
seeing one of the fugitives, Patrick Henry Murphy, at a home that 
supposedly belonged to a relative. But these leads, like so many others, 
came up empty. The van in Utah was filled with the wrong men. The 
house in Mississippi was a bogus tip. By Monday, officials were chasing 
a report in the Texas town of Navasota, where a convenience store 
clerk reported seeing two of the fugitives. Again, a false trail. 
Five weeks after staging a carefully plotted escape from a maximum-security 
state prison in south Texas, the Texas Seven remain at large, seemingly 
everywhere, yet nowhere. The thousands of tips and unconfirmed sightings 
have brought little to nothing. The manhunt, which spreads into Mexico 
and across the nation, has grown into a massive law enforcement effort, 
yet officials concede that they are baffled. ``This is an incredibly 
difficult case,'' said John F. Clark, a chief inspector with the U.S. 
Marshal Service, which has assigned more than two dozen officers to 
the case in Texas. ``It's one unlike any I've ever seen. To this point, 
we're just stymied.'' Law enforcement officials believe that the escapees 
have eluded capture by avoiding the typical mistakes of fugitives. 
Usually, officials say, escapees quickly separate and turn to relatives 
or friends for help; eventually, officers apprehend one fugitive, 
who leads them to the others. But officials believe that the seven 
escapees may remain together. And hundreds of interviews with acquaintances 
have resulted in nothing. Their elusiveness has only magnified their 
mystique and amplified the fear that surrounds them. All seven had 
been convicted of violent crimes, ranging from murder and rape to 
child abuse and armed robbery. Since the escape, officials have charged 
the escapees with two armed robberies, one in Pearland, Texas, and 
a second on Dec. 24 at a suburban Dallas sporting goods store in which 
a police officer was killed. The fugitives reportedly made off with 
$70,000 and a cache of weapons and ammunition. The group's reputed 
mastermind is George Rivas, an armed robber from El Paso, whom law 
enforcement officials believe is maintaining discipline and coherence 
in the group. In the Pearland robbery, the fugitives reportedly took 
police scanners, walkie-talkies and other tools that might help them 
carry out a crime spree and avoid capture. In recent weeks, according 
to news reports, several relatives and acquaintances of the escapees 
have gone into hiding, fearing for their lives. ``We all share the 
fear that these seven dangerous people are going to commit further 
acts of violence,'' said Glen Castlebury, a spokesman for the Texas 
Department of Criminal Justice, which oversees the state prison system 
and is leading the investigation. Castlebury agreed that the apparent 
slowness and inability of investigators to crack the case has contributed 
to growing public concern. ``I know that the public is frustrated 
because I know they want action,'' he said. But he remained confident 
that the fugitives will be apprehended, saying that ultimately, they 
will make a mistake. (BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) The scope of the investigation 
seems to grow every day. The main command post is in Huntsville, Texas, 
only a few miles from the state's death chamber. There, state and 
federal officials sift through investigative reports, tips and unconfirmed 
sightings, searching for patterns or clues. The huge media coverage 
has been a blessing and a curse, intensifying attention on the case 
but also attracting scores of false tips from pranksters and others. 
``Sometimes people call in and say, `You may want to look in Montana,' 
'' said Clark of the Marshal Service. Other tips, though, are specific 
and earnest. Clark estimated that about 40 tips a week are pursued 
and disproved while another 40 are pursued but cannot be confirmed. 
In recent weeks, Clark said, investigators thought they were close, 
particularly when officers entered a Fort Worth apartment and brought 
in for questioning two people thought to be connected to the escapees. 
``It looked good,'' Clark said. But it was a false lead. Meanwhile, 
investigators have interviewed hundreds of relatives, former criminal 
associates and victims, anyone connected to the fugitives. Clark said 
state investigators are assigned to each of the suspects, to become 
experts on their backgrounds and tendencies. (END OPTIONAL TRIM) Even 
as they pursue leads across the country, investigators say they believe 
the fugitives are most likely still in Texas. Customs officials stationed 
along the Mexico border are on heightened alert. Initially, the group 
was believed to be in the Dallas area, but Houston is also considered 
a possibility. Despite the vast, isolated stretches of Texas that 
are practically uninhabited, officials believe the urban sprawl of 
Dallas or Houston would better allow the fugitives to blend in. Art 
Roderick, who heads the U.S. Marshal Service's task force for apprehending 
fugitives, put the enormity and frustration of the search in blunt 
terms. ``Everybody is looking for these people,'' he said. ``And nobody 
is seeing anything. We've done everything that you can possibly imagine.''