Unseeded and unfamiliar as partners, Martina Hingis and Monica Seles 
combined Thursday to oust the top seeds and defending women's doubles 
champions at the Australian Open. Hingis and Seles, No. 1 and No. 
4 respectively in singles rankings and teaming for only the second 
time, overcome Rennae Stubbs and Lisa Raymond in the first round at 
Melbourne Park. Speaking after the 7-6 (2), 6-3 loss, Raymond said 
it was unfair that the two best women's teams were drawn to meet in 
the opener. Stubbs wasn't so diplomatic. She ripped Australian Open 
organizers for bungling the draw by refusing to seed the Hingis-Seles 
combination. ``You basically had the 2000 final out there with the 
exception of substituting Mary Pierce and Monica Seles,'' Stubbs said. 
``For anyone to think that wasn't a ridiculous first round, they're 
not being honest. ``Martina's ranked No. 1 in the world, No. 2 in 
doubles. We're ranked 4 or 5 (in doubles), we shouldn't be playing 
each other first round of a Grand Slam.'' Hingis has won the Australian 
Open doubles title in three of the last four years, with a different 
partner each time. Stubbs and Raymond ended her winning stretch last 
year with a 6-4, 5-7, 6-4 triumph in the final. Hingis also won three 
successive Australian Open singles titles from 1997-99 before losing 
to Lindsay Davenport in 2000. Seles is a four-time Australian Open 
titlist. Stubbs said organizers erred by not seeding Venus and Serena 
Williams, the reigning Wimbledon and Olympic doubles champions. ``It's 
ridiculous that they're not seeded either, they've won four or five 
Grand Slams,'' she said. ``Just because they haven't played enough 
tournaments to have a ranking _ it's irrelevant. It's not like they're 
two great singles players that were just thrown together ... they're 
proven.'' Hingis admitted it was a tough draw, and she struggled initially 
after racing off from a second-round singles win to play the doubles 
match. ``We definitely proved ourselves, that we can play well,'' 
she said. ``So far, we're winning, but we didn't play our best ... 
we didn't have that much time to practice.'' The 20-year-old Swiss 
recently ended her doubles partnership with Russia's Anna Kournikova, 
but said her new combination with Seles gave her new energy. ``Someone 
who is so professional like Monica is always a thrill to go out there 
with because she's such a fighter.'' Hingis said. Hingis and Seles 
will meet Jennifer Capriati and Jelena Dokic in the second round. 
The Williams sisters advanced to a second-round meeting against Els 
Callens and Anne Gaelle Sidot.