Ousted Yugoslav leader Slobodan Milosevic conceded defeat Friday in 
presidential elections, a day after protesters angry at him for clinging 
to power stormed Belgrade's parliament in support of his democratic 
rival and ended his long autocratic regime. The speech acknowledging 
the victory of president-elect Vojislav Kostunica triggered a huge 
celebration on the streets of the Yugoslav capital. Firecrackers were 
exploding and horns honking throughout the city. ``I congratulate 
Mr. Kostunica on his electoral victory and I wish much success to 
all citizens of Yugoslavia,'' Milosevic said in the television address. 
``I intend to rest a bit and spend some more time with my family and 
especially with my grandson Marko and after that to help my party 
gain force and contribute to future prosperity.'' Milosevic's concession 
came in the wake of pronouncements that helped Kostunica consolidate 
his new power. Yugoslavia's high court named him the election winner, 
powerful Yugoslav ally Russia offered its support and the army indicated 
to the president-elect that it would obey the new political authority. 
Army chief of staff Nebojsa Pavkovic, a former Milosevic crony, expressed 
confidence that Kostunica will help ``overcome all the remaining problems 
in a civilized way and return the country to normalcy,'' Tanjug news 
agency reported. He also pledged that the army will carry its duties 
according to the constitution. Friday's developments appeared to complete 
the stunningly swift downfall of Milosevic's regime. On Thursday, 
hundreds of thousands of people converged on Belgrade in protest against 
the longtime leader. Milosevic started and lost four wars in the Balkans 
during his 13 years in power, and sanctions imposed by the United 
Nations, the United States and Europe have left much of Yugoslavia 
impoverished and isolated. Milosevic's concession speech signaled 
that he has abandoned hopes of blocking Kostunica from taking his 
oath, possibly Saturday, and instead will try to carve out a role 
for himself in Yugoslav political life. As an indicted war criminal, 
Milosevic has little chance of seeking asylum abroad and has no choice 
but to try to reach an accommodation with the new government. Kostunica 
said Friday that he had spoken to Milosevic, though he offered no 
details. And Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov met with Milosevic 
at a government villa in Belgrade. Milosevic ``said he intends to 
play a prominent role in the political life of the country,'' Ivanov 
said. During the meeting, Milosevic ``stressed the importance of solving 
the crisis through peaceful ways and that the use of force should 
be avoided,'' Ivanov told reporters. Milosevic had not been seen since 
mobs rampaged through the capital Thursday in a display of rage unprecedented 
in Yugoslavia's 55-year history. The protesters roared through the 
parliament building and the state broadcasting center. When the violence 
subsided, it was clear that control belonged to Kostunica. Wild celebrations 
stretched well into Friday. Other events Friday confirmed the grip 
of the 56-year-old law professor. Ivanov carried a message from Russian 
President Vladimir Putin that ``congratulated Mr. Kostunica on his 
victory in the presidential elections.'' The act removed the last 
possibility of any important international backing for the fading 
Milosevic: Russia was the last major European nation to withhold support 
for Kostunica. ``This is great news,'' said U.S. Secretary of State 
Madeleine Albright, who called it ``very, very important.'' Later, 
in another significant boost, the nation's Constitutional Court notified 
the anti-Milosevic coalition that it had declared Kostunica the new 
president-elect. The court, once considered a puppet of Milosevic, 
killed any legal claim by the former strongman. The speaker of the 
Serbian parliament, Dragan Tomic, addressed Kostunica as president 
in a letter. It was the first such recognition by a high official 
from the Socialist Party of Serbia led by Milosevic. With state media 
already calling Kostunica ``president'' and his supporters ferreting 
out Milosevic cronies in state institutions, all that's left is a 
formal inauguration. Kostunica's aides say that could come as early 
as Saturday. About 200,000 people gathered in front of the charred 
parliament Friday. One of their posters read: ``Slobodan, are you 
counting your last minutes.'' ``We are gradually getting back to normal 
and I believe the crisis is behind us,'' Kostunica said. Milosevic 
is blamed by the West for starting _ and then losing _ the four Balkan 
wars which broke out in the last decade when parts of Yugoslavia began 
to seek independence. Those conflicts were marked by horrific acts 
of violence against civilians, which prompted Western governments 
to impose sanctions and isolate Belgrade. Some of those controls were 
eased after Milosevic signed the 1995 agreement to end the war in 
Bosnia-Herzegovina. However, other sanctions were imposed again in 
1998 after Milosevic launched a brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians 
in Kosovo. In the last day, though, both the United States and the 
European Union have said they will begin to lift sanctions as the 
new democratic administration takes the reins. French President Jacques 
Chirac invited Kostunica to join leaders from the 15 EU nations at 
a summit in the French coastal city of Biarritz on Oct. 13-14. It 
could offer Kostunica a prime opportunity to seek foreign investment 
and other aid. But returning Yugoslavia to normal footing may pose 
its own dilemmas. The sanctions and years of Balkan warfare has left 
the economy in ruins. Last year's 78-day NATO bombardment hammered 
an already creaky transportation and utility network. Kostunica was 
putting together a stopgap crisis committee to try to stabilize the 
country. Somehow he will also have to work with close Milosevic allies, 
such as powerful Serbian President Milan Milutinovic. Like Milosevic, 
Milutinovic was indicted by the international war crimes tribunal 
for the offensive against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo. Kostunica could 
come under strong Western pressure to turn over indicted war criminals. 
Milosevic's pledge to remain could add even more complications. Officials 
in Washington were not pleased with the idea of Milosevic remaining 
on the political scene. They want to see him on trial in The Hague. 
``The first step in the process of removing him from power,'' said 
Sandy Berger, the U.S. national security adviser. ``I would not want 
to see him playing a role in Serb political affairs.'' Despite the 
details left to be played out, Western leaders were rejoicing Friday. 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair said it appeared ``the era of Milosevic 
is over.'' ``This is the day of real rejoicing in the world and Europe 
and, most of all, in Serbia,'' he said.