Overcoming hardship is part of everyday life in El Salvador, a country 
of 6 million people crammed into 8,000 square miles and perched atop 
a major fault line. Wars, earthquakes and diseases have plagued this 
Central American nation's resilient residents. Bishop Gregorio Rosa 
Chavez says Saturday's earthquake _ which killed nearly 700 people 
and left tens of thousands homeless _ is another hurdle for Salvadorans 
to clear on faith and tenacity. ``In El Salvador we grow up thinking 
adversity is normal,'' said Rosa Chavez, who put his own life in danger 
years ago in the defense of human rights during the civil war that 
killed 76,000 people. Juan Bautista, a painter who lost his home when 
part of a mountain collapsed and buried several residential blocks, 
echoed Rosa Chavez as he sat under a tent in a refugee camp. ``What 
do I have left? My family. I am going to start again. With God's help 
we will come out ahead.'' Salvadoran resilience is a mixture of religious 
faith, work ethic and pragmatism, Rosa Chavez said. The country's 
capital sits in what is called the Valley of the Hammocks because 
of the killer earthquakes that periodically rock the area. Before 
Saturday, the last major quake _ in 1986 _ killed more than 1,400 
people. This past year has been particularly hard on El Salvador. 
More than 35 people have died of dengue fever, some 5,000 cases of 
severe childhood diarrhea were caused by rotavirus and 119 people 
died of what prosecutors said were drinks laced with methyl alcohol. 
Throughout the past century, the country was run by a small group 
of families that controlled the economy and made El Salvador a regional 
manufacturing center until the late 1970s when the war between the 
military and leftist guerrillas brought it to the edge of collapse. 
Even during the war, Salvadorans defied bullets and other threats 
of violence and lined up to vote in large numbers. It was a common 
sight to see small businesses, bombed the day before, offer their 
wares under canvas tents the next day. The best known popular leader 
was not a politician, but a Roman Catholic bishop, Monsignor Oscar 
Romero, whose preachings against violence and the war brought him 
death at the hands of an assassin as he celebrated Mass. ``That profound 
religious faith is the spring that raises Salvadorans. It is a faith 
that may be naive, but that gives them the feeling that God is with 
them even though they do not understand it,'' Rosa Chavez said. A 
peace agreement was signed in 1992 when the guerrillas gave up their 
guns and became political organizations. Today the former guerrillas 
are the single largest minority in Congress and control several large 
municipalities, including the capital. ``After the war there were 
no cases of revenge, as we saw in other countries,'' he said. ``There 
was certain pragmatism involved, as if they had decided there was 
enough killing and they should get back to work.'' Today, political 
power is split between the old rightist parties of the 80s and the 
guerrilla groups, now turned political organizations. In his Sunday 
homily, Rosa Chavez urged Salvadorans to forget wasteful political 
discussion and ``give new life to the wonderful dream we had in our 
hearts after 12 years of war. Rosa Chavez found an almost biblical 
tone to the disaster. ``The wrath of nature hit us in the face when 
we were entering an almost suicidal confrontation.''