when the "uss cole" was attacked last october and 17 sailors were 
killed, one of the sailors on board the "ussole" used his own camera 
to record some of the aftermath. these are pictures you have not seen 
before, what the terrorists did to a $1 billion ship, not to mention 
the country's morale. here's abc's john m wethy. most of the sailors 
who died were about to have lunch. a half-eaten meal still sits on 
the table. a few feet away, destruction is total -- the floor driven 
up through the ceiling, a deadly twisting of steel, daylight showing 
through a gaping hole in the side of the ship. we was lucky to make 
it through all this. seaman carl wingate, who shot this home video, 
remembers the moment, along with his shipmates. it was a really loud 
boom. i mean, it's almost undescribable how loud it was. i actually 
started running up the passageway, up the ladder. i opened up the 
door, and there was no deck there. it's gone. i felt my whole body 
shaking. i thought i was getting electrocuted. i didn't know what 
was going on. in the hours just after the blast, the crew is in a 
state of shock. some still covered with soot from the explosion wander 
through darkened passageways, still not sure what hit them. god was 
-- god was with me today. a senior enlisted man says he would have 
been killed if he had not been called to a meeting moments before 
the blast. there was debris laying all over. outside, the ship's exterior 
walls are pitted by shrapnel from the explosion. an orange life raft, 
blown from the deck, is plastered to the side of the bridge, like 
a moth on the front of a speeding car. crewmen, now at battle stations, 
stand at a 50-caliber machine gun that was unmanned when the attack 
occurred. the navy's final report on the "cole" attack is expected 
to explain why no one will be punished, even though the captain and 
crew failed to take basic steps to protect the ship. sources y the 
navy itself will accept part of the blame, by admitting all its ships 
were vulnerable and its sailors were not trained to expect this kind 
of attack. john m wethy, abc news, the pentagon.