El Salvador's economy was struggling well before a devastating earthquake 
brought down hillsides, ended lives, destroyed homes and displaced 
tens of thousands. Now, with many homeless and jobless, the battle 
has become even bigger. Saturday's disaster caused an estimated $1 
billion in damage, nearly half the annual budget in a country where 
the third-largest source of revenue comes from Salvadorans living 
in the United States. It brought most commerce to a halt, closing 
banks, the airport and stores for several days. The coffee industry, 
the country's second-largest source of income, was hit the hardest. 
The magnitude-7.6 quake sent mountainside coffee fields tumbling into 
valleys below, wiping out villages where workers once lived and in 
some cases burying those harvesting the beans. Producers were having 
trouble making ends meet before the quake, preparing to cut 30 percent 
of the country's 135,000 coffee-related jobs because international 
coffee prices have hit rock-bottom. Now officials expect to slash 
even more _ although they aren't sure how many yet. Roughly 85 percent 
of the country's crop had been picked from the fields before the earthquake. 
But it will be a challenge to process it with 15 percent of the country's 
coffee mills crippled, Ricardo Espitia, executive director of the 
Salvadoran Coffee Council, said Thursday. More than 91,000 homes were 
damaged or destroyed across El Salvador, and 687 people were killed 
by the quake, including six in Guatemala. Roads were blocked by landslides 
and bridges collapsed, slowing or halting traffic across the small, 
mountainous country. At one sprawling coffee plantation along a mountain 
range just outside the capital of San Salvador, the quake buried or 
buckled the only access road to an area that produces 20 percent of 
the country's coffee. The majority of workers, who lived in shacks 
clinging to the edge of the narrow, mountain road, lost their homes. 
Most survivors are living in a refugee camp set up in a suburban San 
Salvador park, although some are still trapped on the mountain, living 
outside their collapsed homes until help arrives. ``These people are 
not going to come back to their places of origin, to the coffee areas,'' 
Espitia said. ``Even if the coffee producers want to find workers, 
they won't be able to find them because they will be in the cities 
or in the (United) States. This is going to create another wave of 
immigration.'' The quake prompted several of the 1 million Salvadorans 
living in the United States to fly home _ some to help rebuild family 
homes, others to bury the dead. Last year, the money they sent to 
El Salvador rose to a record $1.6 billion. President Francisco Flores 
has called for even greater contributions from abroad to aid in the 
recovery. Salvadorans began fleeing to the United States during the 
country's 12-year civil war, which ended in 1992, and have continued 
to migrate north ever since, largely because of a lack of work. Since 
the end of the war, the government has been trying to create more 
jobs by encouraging the development of the maquiladora, or assembly-for-export, 
industry, which makes up the country's largest source of income. On 
Jan. 1, El Salvador began using the dollar alongside its traditional 
currency, the colon, in an effort to attract more foreign investment 
and control inflation.