Defending champion Lindsay Davenport, who struggled through the first 
two rounds of the Australian Open, had an easier time Friday in beating 
Silvia Farina Elia 6-2, 6-1. On the warmest day of the tournament, 
with the temperature expected to reach 90 degrees, Davenport dominated 
the first center court match. She raced to a 4-0 lead in each set 
and closed out the victory in 63 minutes. ``I'm a lot happier with 
the way I played,'' Davenport said. ``You can tell when you're hitting 
the ball cleanly and well, even when you might not win every point. 
I was hitting with more power and depth and all that good stuff I've 
been lacking the last couple of matches.'' In men's play, second-seeded 
Marat Safin had his easiest match so far, beating Michal Tabara 6-1, 
6-1, 6-4. Todd Martin beat No. 13 Cedric Pioline 6-4, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
Pioline was the fourth seeded man to be sidelined. The No. 2-seeded 
Davenport's opponent in the fourth round will be No. 15 Kim Clijsters, 
who won the first 11 games and beat qualifier Nuria Llagostera 6-0, 
6-1. When Llagostera finally got on the board by holding serve in 
the next-to-last game, the Spaniard pumped her fist and grinned. Davenport 
is 2-0 against the 17-year-old Clijsters, with both matches three-setters 
last year. ``It's always been like a close match, and I've had my 
chances,'' Clijsters said. ``I'm looking forward to it. I'm going 
to enjoy it.'' ``It's a tough match,'' Davenport said. ``It's funny 
_ for so many years I was the youngest player. Now I'm one of the 
oldest. The young girls are very fiery and have a hard-hitting game, 
and they go for their shots. ``The two times I played Kim, they were 
tough three-set matches. I don't expect anything different this time.'' 
Davenport, pushed to three sets in wins over Jelena Dokic and Greta 
Arn, had less trouble with Farina Elia. Davenport struggled with her 
serve but feasted on the Italian's second serve and moved better than 
in her previous match. One long rally had Davenport scrambling from 
sideline to sideline, but she managed to chase down a backhand and 
yank it crosscourt for a winner. Her groundstrokes were again a bit 
erratic, however, and she needed five match points in the final game 
to close out the victory. Thirteen seeded women made it through two 
rounds. Top-seeded Martina Hingis, who has lost three games so far, 
beat Els Callens 6-1, 6-0 Thursday. No. 3 Venus Williams defeated 
Meghann Shaughnessy 6-3, 7-6 (3). No. 6 Serena Williams eliminated 
Nadejda Petrova 6-3, 6-2. Top-seeded Gustavo Kuerten lost to Greg 
Rusedski 4-6, 6-4, 6-3, 2-6, 9-7 in the final match Thursday.