good evening. this would have been a big day in washington. the last 
night in the white house for president clinton and his family. the 
eve of another bush era. the first son to follow a father into the 
white house since the and yet this day will surely be remembered because 
bill clinton finally admitted that he didn't tell the truth under 
oath about monica lewinsky. the scandal pursues him to the end. mr. 
clinton and the independent counsel bob ray have finally made a deal. 
mr. clinton owns up and he doesn't get indicted, though there are 
consequences. jackie judd, who has covered the lewinsky case from 
the beginning has the details. peter, these matters are not concluded. 
with those words from the independent counsel, the president was out 
from under the threat of an indictment in the lewinsky scandal. mr. 
clinton admitted he knowingly violated a judge's order during the 
paula jones deposition to, among other thing99 things, testify truthfully. 
at any time have you and monica lewinsky ever been alone together 
in any room in the white house? i think i testified to that earlier. 
i think that it is -- i have no specific rex. as part of the deal 
there was no admission of perjury, but through his spokesman, the 
president did for first time admit that some responses were false. 
i tried to walk a fine line between acting lawfully and testifying 
falsely, but i now recognize that i did not fully accomplish this 
goal. clinton's longtime lawyer david kendall insisted even now mr. 
clinton had not crossed a line. negotiations between kendall and independent 
counsel robert ray heated up several weeks ago. kendall was under 
some pressure because ray was considering asking a grand jury for 
an indictment against mr. clinton after he left office. they concluded 
with today's artfully worded agreement. the nation's interests have 
been served and, therefore, i decline prosecution. mr. clinton was 
facing possible disbarment for his deceit in the jones' case. instead, 
he agreed today to have his law license suspended for five years and 
to pay a $25,000 fine. i trust that the decision made today meets 
the expectations of the american people and demonstrates sensitivity 
to our constitutional system of government. president clinton, who 
was not seen in public today gave his spokesman the final word. i 
hope my actions today will help bring closure an finalality to these 
matters. the timing of this announcement, one day before the president 
leaves office, was no accident. a source says that robert ray felt 
that because mr. clinton's conduct occurred while in office it ought 
to be dealt with while he was still there. thank you very much, jackie 
judd, who has covered this story from the very beginning. the president's 
exercise of power is rapidly shrinking. he has very little time left 
in which to make decisions which will actually count. one of the things 
he has been considering today are the issuance of numerous pardons. 
john cochran is at the white house tonight. john, it hasn't actually 
been made public, but who are they considering in these final hours? 
a cliff-hanger here. the president knows more about his own feat tonight. 
he's agonizing, we're told, over the fate of others, including some 
old close friends from arkansas. some of these people being considered 
for pardons are not in prison, but they still want a pardon. for example, 
webster hubbell, a former justice department official from arkansas 
convicted on several accounts, including tax evasion. he was loyal 
to the clintons. same with susan m dougal who served some time in 
jail for contempt because she refused to testify about the clintons. 
a former member of the president's cabinet, henry cisneros had pled 
guilty to lying to the fbi about the amount of money he gave to his 
miss stress. some under consideration for pardons have no particular 
connection to the clintons, like michael milken. known as the junk 
bond king on wall street. milken's friends were one hour ago, peter, 
still lobbying for a pardon for him. leonard peltier, a native american 
convicted of killing two fbi agents. jonathan pollard convicted of 
spying for israel. the israeli government has pushed hard for his 
release. one more name being added to the list, former new jersey 
senator harrison williams. thanks very much, john cochran at the white 
house. this is the president's last night to exercise his power of 
pardon. one other character whose figured very significantly in american 
life? linda tripp. one of the central figures in the monica lewinsky 
case, has lost her job at the pentagon. all political appointees, 
and she was one, are required to resign when a new administration 
begins. she said she shouldn't have to quit because she is a whistleblower 
and thus, protected. and she may sue.