and back here in washington, u.s. defense secretary william cohen 
today issued the final report on the bombing of the "uss cole" that 
killed 17 sailors in yemen. the verdict -- everyone was to blame for 
security lapses, but no one, including the ship's captain, will be 
punished. i asked the secretary about the "cole" as he prepared to 
become a private citizen again. the ones responsible for the attack 
on "the cole" are the terrorists. the question about the accountability, 
how did it occur? what were the facts? we shouldn't try to hang this 
responsibility solely on the captain of the ship who fought with his 
crew valiantly to save it. i think everyone in the chain of command 
has to remain accountable all the way up to myself as secretary of 
defense. i william s. cohen. do swear. do swear. mr. secretary, you've 
spent most of your adult life in public service. mayor, representative, 
senator, defense secretary. if you were starting over again right 
now, would you be as drawn to public service? yes. public service 
is the highest calling that one could have. if you have some ability 
to make a contribution to help your fellow man and fellow woman then 
you wanna do that. cohen says there have been two major changes in 
the public arena -- nonstop and aggressive television coverage he 
says are not always responsible and senators, like him, who get fed 
up and leave voluntarily. there was a sense of partisanship and acrimony 
and a sense of frustration of too many time outs, too many quorum 
calls. too much time in trying to negotiate agreements just to shut 
off debates, that the rewards were not as great as they once were. 
cohen's current career comes to a close. with his wife janet by his 
side, he will move from public to private service. he says he'll take 
but one day off, sunday, to rest and reflect. you came to this job 
interested in national security matters and international policy, 
but you have never served in uniform. right. men and women of the 
united states armed forces, for the past four years, we've been blessed 
to serve with you as you stand guard in the night. what have you learned 
as defense secretary about yourself? i have learned that i should 
be forever grateful to those who have chosen voluntarily to wear the 
uniform. to go out day in and day out to put their lives on the line. 
lives are being risked every day on our behalf, and i think not enough 
of the american people fully appreciate that.