Defense Secretary William Cohen closed out the USS Cole bombing investigation 
Friday by declaring that no one in the military chain of command should 
be accused of negligence, but all could be faulted for inadequate 
attention to terrorist threats. ``We were not complacent, but the 
terrorists found new opportunities before we found new protections,'' 
Cohen told a Pentagon news conference. The Navy released its final 
investigation report on the case Friday. As previously reported, Adm. 
Vern Clark, the chief of naval operations, has concluded that no one 
aboard the Cole should be disciplined. Cohen believes the entire military 
chain of command can be faulted for not paying more attention to the 
vulnerability of U.S. ships in areas where the terrorist threat is 
high. ``We didn't do all that needed to be done,'' he said. ``We have 
learned from this experience that we need to be more vigorous.'' At 
the same time, Cohen has concluded that no individuals should be punished. 
The Cole was bombed by suicide terrorists in a small boat while the 
destroyer was refueling in Aden, Yemen, on Oct. 12. The attack killed 
17 sailors and nearly sunk the $1 billion ship. ``All of us in the 
whole chain of command have to do a better job and we had that obligation 
to all of the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, coast guardsmen 
and their families, and a better job has to be done,'' Cohen said 
Friday on NBC's ``Today'' show. Cohen said he agrees with the findings 
of an independent panel he established to assess ways in which the 
Defense Department, in coordination with other government agencies, 
can provide better protection for U.S. forces in transit around the 
world. The panel cited, among other things, a need for better intelligence 
collection on terrorist threats. In his NBC interview, Cohen said 
the Cole bombing exposed a seam in U.S. security precautions. ``There 
has not been sufficient attention devoted to those ships that are 
in transit, about to come into a port or while they're in port,'' 
he said. ``You have a number of seams'' in security. ``It's our job 
to make sure that we appreciate the seams faster than the terrorists 
do. There will always be terrorists looking for weaknesses.'' Cohen 
wanted to close the Cole case before he left office. Friday was his 
final full day as defense secretary. The job of implementing the recommended 
improvements in security will fall to Cohen's successor, Defense Secretary-designate 
Donald Rumsfeld. Because the Cole's captain, Cmdr. Kirk Lippold, did 
not carry out all of approximately 60 planned actions to ensure the 
ship's protection while refueling in Aden harbor, some believed he 
would be punished and his career ruined. Instead, Clark supported 
a determination that Lippold had done what could have been reasonably 
expected under the circumstances and that he was not given necessary 
information about the terrorist threat in Aden, a major port at the 
southern tip of the Saudi peninsula. Clark also believes that even 
with security measures in place as prescribed, the attack would not 
have been prevented, officials said. The nature of the attack was 
unprecedented, although the threat was not unimaginable. The military's 
written guidelines on terror threats states explicitly that harbor 
craft of the sort that approached the Cole ``require special concern 
because they can serve as an ideal platform for terrorists.'' The 
guidelines say fire hoses should be ready for emergency use and personnel 
be briefed on using them for repelling boarders, small boats and ultralight 
aircraft. Lippold made a decision on his own not to prepare for the 
use of fire hoses, another senior defense official said, also speaking 
anonymously. Lippold apparently believed that fire hoses would not 
have strengthened the ship's defenses. Some crew members said after 
the bombing that they saw the small boat approach the Cole and assumed 
it was yet another harbor craft providing trash disposal and other 
services. No one on the Cole challenged the craft as it approached.