President Clinton's final pardon list Saturday was notable for names 
not included, especially that of Michael R. Milken, the convicted 
Wall Street financier whose appeal for clemency was a source of great 
debate. Clinton had, in fact, signaled his willingness to pardon Milken, 
even as recently as the week before last, based on his philanthropic 
record. But the president was apparently persuaded not to do so because 
of protests from law enforcement officials and several aides in the 
administration who counseled that a Milken pardon would not be appropriate. 
Milken's spokesman, Geoffrey Moore, said that upon learning he would 
not receive a pardon, Milken told him: ``Back in '93, I was given 
a year to live so in that context, it's hard to be disappointed about 
this.'' Moore added, ``He's an optimist and always looking to the 
future and continuing his work in education and medical research.'' 
Clinton began considering a pardon for Milken after being pressed 
to consider the idea by Ron Burkle, a California supermarket magnate 
who has been a generous donor to the Democratic Party and has pledged, 
fund-raisers said, to provide support for the Clinton Presidential 
Library in Little Rock. Ark. But after the report appeared, the White 
House received strong protests, principally from the U.S. attorney's 
office in Manhattan, which had initially prosecuted Milken, and from 
the Securities and Exchange Commission, which had brought an action 
against him after he served nearly two years in jail. Milken, who 
pleaded guilty to six counts of securities fraud in 1990, served nearly 
two years in prison, paid more than $1 billion in fines, penalties, 
restitution and civil settlements and was barred from the securities 
business for life. Mary Jo White, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, 
and Richard H. Walker, the director of enforcement for the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, had written Clinton asking him not to issue 
a pardon. Those who have objected to granting Milken a pardon said 
they felt he was an inappropriate candidate because he had been charged 
with violating orders to stay out of the securities industry as part 
of his original plea bargain. The week before last, the New Yorker 
magazine published an examination of the business activities Milken 
undertook after leaving prison that resulted in the SEC complaint. 
The complaint was eventually settled with no admission of guilt, but 
Milken agreed to return $47 million in consulting fees that he received 
for bringing together various business leaders and counseling them 
on deals and investments.