President Clinton on Saturday morning commuted the prison sentence 
of a former terrorist who had been denied parole because of charges 
brought against her in a notorious 1981 armed robbery of a Brink's 
armored car that left two police officers and a security guard dead. 
The prisoner, Susan L. Rosenberg, was free to walk out of the Danbury 
Correctional Facility in Danbury, Conn., said her lawyer, Howard Gutman. 
Friends of Rosenberg's were trying to find the warden, whose office 
was closed Saturday morning, so he could release her, Gutman said. 
Rosenberg was among 36 people whose prison sentences were commuted 
in Clinton's last acts in office. Rosenberg, who was serving a 58-year 
sentence for an unrelated New Jersey explosives case, was never tried 
in the Brink's robbery. But the government denied her parole, even 
though she was considered a model prisoner, saying there was evidence 
she was involved in the Brink's robbery in Nanuet, N.Y, as well as 
other crimes. She was ordered last year to remain in custody for 15 
more years. Because of her conduct in prison, Rosenberg had been eligible 
for release last year even though her sentence was for 58 years. ``Susan's 
additional 15 years of incarceration exposed many of the flaws in 
the unfettered discretion of the parole board,'' Gutman said. ``The 
president's action vindicates the concept that no American should 
be imprisoned on charges for which they were never tried or convicted. 
We couldn't be more delighted.'' Rosenberg has always denied any involvement 
in the Brink's robbery and the other crimes cited by the Parole Commission. 
Prosecutors dropped the charges against her on the grounds that she 
was already serving a lengthy prison sentence. Late last year, Rosenberg 
asked Judge Charles S. Haight of U.S. District Court in Manhattan 
to either release her or reinstate the Brink's conspiracy charges 
and then dismiss them outright. Haight did not issue a ruling before 
the president acted. The office of Mary Jo White, the U.S. attorney 
in Manhattan, opposed Rosenberg's pleas. The office had no comment 
on the commutation Saturday. Clinton granted pardons or commutations 
of sentences for more than 140 people on Saturday, an hour and a half 
before he left office. One was William D. Fugazy, a former transportation 
executive from the New York area who pleaded guilty in 1997 to perjury 
during a bankruptcy proceeding. Rosenberg's name gained a certain 
prominence in the New York area after her arrest in 1984. She and 
a companion, Timothy A. Blunk, were caught unloading 740 pounds of 
dynamite and weapons, including a submachine gun, from their car off 
Interstate 295 in Cherry Hill, N.J., in November of that year. She 
admitted that she was planning to supply the explosives to others 
for bombings, and she has apologized for the crime. But at the time, 
Rosenberg was also wanted for fleeing while under indictment for charges 
that included federal racketeering, bank robberies and the Brink's 
case, in which $1.6 million was taken. The Brink's truck was attacked 
on Oct. 20, 1981 by a band of people that included members of the 
Weather Underground and the Black Liberation Army. The security guard 
was killed in the Nanuet Mall, and the two police officers were killed 
in a roadblock shootout. Federal investigations later showed that 
Rosenberg lived for a year in New Haven with Marilyn Jean Buck, the 
driver of the getaway car. In the explosives case, Rosenberg was convicted 
in 1985 of eight counts of possessing explosives, weapons and fake 
identification cards. She was sentenced to 58 years in prison. The 
length of the sentence gave Rudolph Giuliani, then the U.S. attorney, 
reason to drop the charges in the Brink's robbery. Rosenberg objected 
at the time, but to no avail. Blunk, who was not involved in the Brink's 
robbery, was paroled after 12 years. While she was in prison, Rosenberg 
developed AIDS programs for prisoners, counseled troubled inmates 
and worked in the prison chapel and library, a prison official said. 
That official told the Parole Commission that he considered Rosenberg 
``a perfect example of one who has truly changed.'' Nevertheless, 
the Parole Commission said it was taking into account crimes for which 
she was not serving time. That included the Brink's case, as well 
as other crimes that prosecutors said were committed by violent radicals 
who called themselves the Family. The commission said it did not find 
Rosenberg's denials of involvement in those crimes to be credible. 
Rosenberg contended that the government had robbed her of due process 
by keeping her in prison on charges that were never brought to trial. 
White's office said that Rosenberg gave up her right to a trial on 
the Brink's charges when she fled while under indictment. In a recent 
court filing, a prosecutor said that Rosenberg's release would be 
justified only after she had served 25 more years. But Saturday, Gutman 
said that ``she has served her time and will be a productive member 
of society.''