George Walker Bush was inaugurated 43rd president of the United States 
on Saturday, his eyes glistening with emotion as he became only the 
second son in American history to follow his father to the White House. 
At a cold, drizzly noon, Bush raised his right hand and swore the 
oath of the office and promised to bring ``civility, courage, compassion 
and character'' to the White House. In the pageantry of the transfer 
of power, George Herbert Walker Bush brushed back a tear as he stood 
proud witness to his son's inauguration 12 years after his own. The 
elder Bush served one term; Bill Clinton defeated him for re-election 
in 1992. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist administered the oath 
of office, first to Vice President Dick Cheney, then to Bush, whose 
hairbreadth election was cemented by a Supreme Court decision five 
weeks after the ballots were cast. Bush's wife, Laura, and 19-year-old 
twin daughters, Jenna and Barbara, stood with him as he took the oath, 
hand on the same historic Bible his father used in 1989. The new president 
embraced them, shook hands with Clinton and Al Gore, the Democrat 
he defeated in the overtime election, and then turned to his parents. 
First a handshake with his father, then a brief embrace. Then the 
new president stepped to the microphone of the white inaugural stand 
before the flag-draped West Front of the Capitol, presented for the 
first time as ``The president of the United States, George W. Bush.'' 
So ended the eight years of Clinton, who had declared that he would 
work until his last minute in power, and did, with a sheaf of more 
than 100 presidential pardons just before he left the White House. 
A day earlier, Clinton made an immunity deal to avoid indictment for 
false statements about the sex scandal that led to his impeachment. 
Bush set his themes in a 15-minute address that offered a salute to 
Gore for ``a contest conducted with spirit and ended with grace.'' 
The applause was muffled, from gloved hands, 14 rounds, most subdued, 
one with cheers when Bush promised to pursue the tax cut on which 
he campaigned. Bush said he will not accept nor allow a situation 
in which ``our differences run so deep it seems we share a continent 
but not a country.'' There was a hint of later snow in the air and 
in the weather forecast as Clinton and Bush shared a limousine from 
the White House to the Capitol for the inauguration of the Republican 
whom the outgoing president campaigned to defeat. Bush said unity 
is the work of leaders, and ``this is my solemn pledge: I will work 
to build a single nation of justice and opportunity.'' A scant two 
hours before he left office, Clinton issued more pardons to clear 
the records of convicted Americans including his former Whitewater 
business partner, newspaper heiress Patty Hearst, the president's 
brother Roger, on a drug conviction, and a former Cabinet member. 
Then he and Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton had a last dance in the White 
House foyer, shortly before Bush and his wife arrived for coffee. 
The incoming president gave a thumbs up on the steps of his new home. 
In his inaugural address, Bush promised to ``live and lead'' by firm 
principles: ``To advance my convictions with civility, to pursue the 
public interest with courage, to speak for greater justice and compassion, 
to call for responsibility, and try to live it as well.'' He told 
Americans that ``what you do is as important as anything government 
does. ``I ask you to seek a common good beyond your comfort, to defend 
needed reforms against easy attacks, to serve your nation, beginning 
with your neighbor. ``I ask you to be citizens,'' he said. ``Citizens 
not spectators. Citizens not subjects. Responsible citizens, building 
communities of service and a nation of character.'' Among the thousands 
of citizens who gathered to watch the ceremony and the inaugural parade 
were protesters, who chanted, waved anti-Bush signs, and at one point, 
slashed tires on some automobiles when security checks slowed their 
entrance to a designated protest zone. As Bush was being sworn in, 
hundreds of police tried to restrain thousands of demonstrators 16 
blocks away. Some were arrested. At least one officer was bloodied. 
Bush offered a special message to Americans who ``doubt the promise, 
even the justice, of our own country,'' saying he will be a president 
striving to ensure opportunity and equality for all. He found scant 
support among minority voters in the disputed election; blacks opposed 
him 10 to 1 and some still question the legitimacy of his victory, 
cemented by the Supreme Court five weeks after the Nov. 7 election. 
The new president disputed people he said ``seem to believe that our 
politics can afford to be petty,'' saying the stakes are too high 
for that attitude, that there must be leadership to strengthen education, 
and to make sure that the economy does not ``drift and decline.'' 
His most specific promises: _ Action to ``reclaim America's schools.'' 
_ Reform of Social Security and Medicare. _ Tax cuts ``to recover 
the momentum of our economy'' and reward the effort of working Americans. 
_ A national defense ``beyond challenge,'' and action to confront 
``weapons of mass destruction,'' the national missile defense system 
he advocates. ``I feel humbled and honored,'' Bush said as he left 
the stage for a traditional inaugural luncheon inside the Capitol. 
His first official act there was to sign the nominations of his Cabinet 
members, three of whom had been cleared for Senate confirmation later 
in the day. For the new president, Saturday's public schedule began 
with a traditional worship service at St. John's Episcopal Church, 
across Lafayette Park from the White House. His family and Cheney 
were with him. Next, coffee at the White House with the Clintons and 
Gores. Bush and his wife walked hand in hand up the White House steps, 
where the Clintons waited to greet them. ``How are you doing?'' Bush 
asked Hillary Clinton. ``Great,'' she replied. The leaders of government 
and the diplomatic corps had seats of privilege on the West Front 
of the Capitol and throngs assembled for blocks along the rain-soaked 
National Mall, a vista framed by the Washington Monument and the Lincoln 
Memorial. The winter drizzle made plastic raincoats the preferred 
dress, and left some VIP seats empty. Nor was the crowd beyond them 
as large as at some prior inaugurations. The new President Bush is 
the first Republican since Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1953 to take office 
with GOP control of both the House, narrowly, and the Senate, only 
because of the tie-breaking vote of Cheney. Clinton was still doing 
business Saturday morning. ``I pledged that I would work until the 
last hour of the last day. Well, here we are,'' he said in his final 
weekly radio address. As though to underscore his point, Clinton issued 
the string of pardons and an executive order creating a Governors 
Island National Monument in New York harbor. Bush's first executive 
orders were to set ethics guidelines for his administration and declare 
a national day of prayer. The new president also prepared an order 
to effectively block a series of executive orders issued by Clinton 
in his final weeks in office, among them measures to put wide areas 
of federal land off limits to mining or commercial use, and setting 
new guidelines for managed care programs under Medicare. Bush's order 
will impose a moratorium on publication of the last-days Clinton decisions, 
without which they can't take effect. Along the ceremonial mile from 
the Capitol to 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., there was pomp and protest 
on an occasion of history and sentiment, an emotional one for the 
incoming Bush and the departing Clinton. It also was an inauguration 
with unprecedented security steps, checkpoints near the Capitol, 10 
more along the Pennsylvania Avenue parade route, to check the bags 
and packages of thousands upon thousands of spectators. The ritual 
of inauguration, the 54th, was performed with a cast like none assembled 
before _ Rehnquist, whose court issued the last word on the election, 
the loser and winner of that election, the loser and winner of the 
1992 election. Former President Bush was the first father of an incoming 
president to see his son take office in 40 years, since Joseph P. 
Kennedy watched John F. Kennedy inaugurated. Only once before, when 
John Quincy Adams traced his father's steps into the White House 176 
years ago, had the son of a president become a president. Not since 
1888 had a president been elected without winning the nationwide popular 
vote. Gore outpolled Bush by more than a half-million votes, but could 
only watch what could have been as Bush took office. Bush beat him, 
with one vote to spare, in the Electoral College, where it counts. 
The 1876 presidential election was the last to be contested in overtime. 
The 2000 election was the first settled by the Supreme Court. Before 
the inauguration, Bush had said that he hopes to convince black voters 
he will work for them too and that he merits minority support like 
that he gained in his re-election as governor of Texas. His secretary 
of state, Colin Powell, is the first black American chosen for that 
position, one of two in a Bush Cabinet that includes three women, 
two Asian Americans, one of them a Democrat, and a Hispanic American. 
After the ceremony, the parade, and eight black-tie inaugural balls 
_ Bush said he was brushing up his two-step with Laura _ the president 
planned an open house on Sunday for about 3,000 people at the White 
House. Then the first work week, when Bush will concentrate on Congress, 
meet with Republicans, bipartisan congressional leaders and newly 
elected members of both parties. His first big request of Congress 
will be for the education bill he touted in his campaign. After a 
farewell rally at Andrews Air Force Base, Clinton was flying to New 
York for another one. At 54, Clinton left office at the age at which 
his successor enters it, and as the youngest former president since 
Theodore Roosevelt, who was 50 in 1909.