Ivory Coast's main opposition leader urged his supporters to stay 
calm Saturday after the Supreme Court barred him from running in elections 
meant to restore civilian rule to the West African country. Twenty 
candidates submitted applications to participate in the Oct. 22 vote. 
But only five, including junta leader Gen. Robert Guei, were found 
eligible to run, according to a Supreme Court ruling read late Friday. 
The main opposition leader, Alassane Dramane Ouattara, was rejected 
along with ousted President Henri Konan Bedie and one of his former 
Cabinet ministers, Emile Constant Bombet. Some Ouattara supporters 
had warned of civil unrest if he was excluded. Junta officials had 
countered with threats of harsh reprisals for any violence. But in 
a telephone interview from his house in Abidjan, Ouattara said that 
he and his supporters would not initiate any violence, though clashes 
were still possible. ``If the country has to burn, it will be Gen. 
Guei who will be responsible for it,'' Ouattara said, calling the 
Oct. 22 vote a ``masquerade election.'' With a state of emergency 
in effect, the commercial capital remained calm Saturday morning. 
Many stores were closed and there were fewer people in the streets 
than usual, but buses were functioning normally and security forces 
kept a low profile. The Supreme Court said it had doubts about the 
nationality of Ouattara's mother, who was listed under different names 
in his supporting documents, and argued that the opposition leader 
had made use of a nationality other than Ivorian during his career. 
Ivory Coast's new constitution, approved by the junta, states that 
both parents of a presidential candidate must have been born in the 
country, and that they themselves must never have used any other nationality. 
The junta, which took power in a Dec. 24 coup, claims Ouattara's mother 
has her origins in neighboring Burkina Faso. Ouattara insists both 
his parents are Ivorian, and that he never legally assumed any other 
nationality. Reasons for ruling out the other candidates ranged from 
corruption allegations to irregularities in their applications and 
failure to make the necessary financial deposit. Laurent Gbagbo, a 
longtime politician who has lost several previous election bids, was 
the only well known figure permitted to stand against Guei. After 
seizing power in the coup _ Ivory Coast's first _ Guei initially promised 
a quick handover to civilian rule. But he has since traded his military 
uniform for a suit and tie and has rallied several small political 
parties around his candidacy despite international calls to step down. 
The Ivory coast has sub-Saharan Africa's third-largest economy, dependent 
on exports of coffee and cocoa