When William Jefferson Clinton came to Washington as president-elect 
eight years ago this week, he transformed his journey into a sentimental 
extravagance: from the caravan of buses that assembled at Jefferson's 
old plantation in Monticello to his arrival, with fireworks, at the 
Lincoln Memorial. Clinton's departure from Washington _ and his presidency 
_ Saturday afternoon was only slightly less elaborate, from the 21-gun 
salute, to the crisp and elongated review of the Honor Guard, to not 
one but three separate hand-shaking sessions with the aides and friends 
who came to Andrews Air Force base. In all, it took 100 minutes from 
the time Clinton arrived at the farewell ceremony to the moment his 
Boeing 747 slipped into the clouds at 2:57 p.m. There was more rallying 
upon his touchdown at Kennedy International Airport. ``You see that 
sign there that says please don't go?'' Clinton said, gesturing at 
the crowd just before he left Washington, D.C. ``I left the White 
House _ but I'm still here!'' ``I wish you well,'' the former president 
of the United States said. ``You gave me the ride of my life, and 
I probably gave as good as I got.'' Inevitably, the man who was known 
for his huge appetites showed no sign of slipping easily away from 
a job that his friends said he was only giving up in deference to 
the Constitution. He issued more than 100 pardons and commutations 
of sentences just before leaving office in the morning, and he filled 
his afternoon with vivid events that assured him a spot on television 
alongside President Bush. And just after Clinton reached the Oval 
Office for the final time as president Saturday morning at about 10 
a.m., he then spun around and walked back to the bay windows, to gaze 
one last time across the South Lawn. ``I just told him the three hardest 
words he's going to learn as an ex-president,'' Terry McAuliffe, his 
long-time friend, fund-raiser and choice to run the Democratic National 
Committee, said aboard the plane taking Clinton to his new home here 
Saturday afternoon. ``Cut it out.'' Still, the reminders that Clinton 
was now just another former president of the United States came up 
abruptly. When Bush escorted Clinton to his armored limousine after 
the inauguration, its side door was black, plain and shiny _ stripped 
of its presidential seal. By noon, Clinton's aides had turned in their 
pagers, cell phones, and hard collar-pins that had once assured them 
automatic clearance by the Secret Service. Clinton's motorcade to 
Andrews Air Force base actually stopped for traffic lights, and the 
plane he flew back on was called not Air Force One, but Special Air 
Mission 28000, the same plane that flew Bush's father back to Texas 
in defeat eight years ago. When Clinton landed in New York, it was 
Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton who was the featured speaker, speaking 
far longer than Clinton. At the rally in New York, Chelsea Clinton, 
who has spent almost half her life in the White House, turned to a 
friend and said, ``I don't even know my own phone number!'' At the 
new home here, reporters were waiting just outside the driveway _ 
something that would not have been permitted when dawn broke Saturday 
morning. Saying goodbye to Clinton were many friends and aides, for 
whom today was yet another emotionally tearing moment in an administration 
that had been full of them. ``It's been a great adventure,'' said 
Janet Reno, the former attorney general, sitting undisturbed in a 
folding chair as she awaited her former boss to arrive at the Andrews 
hangar. ``Now I'm going to go home and sit on my front porch.'' Clinton 
was warm and expansive as he recounted his ``bittersweet goodbye'' 
to the White House. ``I want all of you to know that I feel like John 
Podesta did,'' Clinton said, referring to his former chief of staff. 
As they left the Oval Office for the last time, Clinton said Podesta 
``was tearing up a bit and he just said, `We did a lot of good. We 
did a lot of good.''' Clinton stood silent as the applause rose from 
the crowd. ``We did a lot of good,'' the former president said.