The wife of an inmate who at one point would have been in line to 
be the first person executed by the federal government since 1963 
said ``God bless President Clinton'' for commuting the death sentence 
on Saturday. David Ronald Chandler, held in a federal prison at Terre 
Haute, Ind., was one of 36 people whose sentences were commuted at 
the same time that the president pardoned 140 others. Chandler was 
convicted in 1991 of running a drug ring that trafficked marijuana 
from the foothills of northeast Alabama and was condemned to death 
for ordering the murder of an associate-turned-informant. He was the 
first person sentenced to die under a 1988 drug law, but appeals effectively 
put off the setting of an execution date. Chandler's sentence will 
be changed to life without parole, said Calhoun County District Attorney 
Joseph Hubbard, who helped prosecute Chandler. Chandler's wife, Deborah, 
said Saturday that she had been praying that Clinton would commute 
the death sentence. ``God bless President Clinton,'' she said. Chandler 
``always said God would clear his name,'' she added. Chandler contends 
he is innocent of the killing of Martin Shuler, and the government's 
main witness has recanted testimony that linked Chandler to the slaying. 
``We kept praying for him to get back to court,'' said Deborah Chandler. 
The couple have three children. A three-judge panel of the 11th U.S. 
Circuit Court of Appeals voted 2-1 in October 1999 to overturn the 
death sentence, but an 11-judge panel reversed that decision in July, 
voting 6-5 to reject a claim that he did not receive effective representation 
by his trial lawyer. However, even the judges who rejected his petition 
in July wrote that ``evidence of guilt was not overwhelming.'' The 
case was expected to go the U.S. Supreme Court, Hubbard noted. In 
the meantime, Timothy McVeigh is in line to become the first person 
put to death by the federal government in nearly 40 years. He is scheduled 
to die by injection May 16 at the Terre Haute prison for blowing up 
the federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995, killing 168 people. 
Hubbard maintained that Chandler is not innocent and called the decision 
``another stain'' on Clinton's legacy. He said he had sent letters 
of protest to Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno after learning 
of the proposed commutation several days earlier. ``My thoughts are 
it's an unwarranted intervention into the judicial process. This case 
is not over with in the courts,'' Hubbard said.