President Clinton ended his tenure Saturday by pardoning 140 Americans, 
erasing the criminal records of his brother Roger, Whitewater business 
partner Susan McDougal and 1970s kidnapped heiress Patricia Hearst 
in a mix of personal and historical acts of clemency. The orders Clinton 
signed two hours before leaving office also spared one man from execution 
and cleared the cloud of scandal from two former Cabinet confidants 
_ ex-CIA director John Deutch and ex-housing chief Henry Cisneros. 
Deutch had been discussing a possible plea deal with Justice Department 
prosecutors to settle allegations he mishandled classified government 
information when the pardon muted his case. He was not alone. Former 
Arizona Gov. Fife Symington also received a pardon that effectively 
ends prosecutors efforts to restore criminal charges against him. 
``I'm humbled and gratified,'' said Symington, a Republican convicted 
in 1997 on six of counts of bank and wire fraud who later overturned 
the charges on appeal. The list, which included 36 commutations, also 
was notable for those it did not include: Webster Hubbell, a former 
law partner of Hillary Rodham Clinton convicted in the Whitewater 
investigation, had not sought a pardon; Jonathan Pollard, a former 
Navy analyst imprisoned for spying for Israel; one-time Wall Street 
financier Michael Milken; former senator and Abscam figure Harrison 
Williams; and Leonard Peltier, convicted of killing two FBI agents 
on an Indian reservation in 1975. He did, however, pardon fugitive 
commodities trader Marc Rich, who fled to Switzerland in the 1980s 
to escape federal charges of financial fraud, tax evasion and racketeering. 
The Swiss had refused to extradite him. Clinton, himself spared from 
indictment in a deal Friday with prosecutors, also commuted the prison 
sentences of 35 people and the death sentence of an Alabama man. The 
president spared David Ronald Chandler from being executed in an Alabama 
drug case in which questions have been raised about his federal conviction 
for ordering the murder of an associate-turned-informant. Chandler 
must remain in prison. ``God bless President Clinton,'' said Chandler's 
wife, Deborah. ``We kept praying for him to get back to court.'' Others 
who prison sentences were commuted included: _former Navajo Nation 
leader Peter MacDonald, sent to prison in connection with a bloody 
riot in 1989. _former Chicago area Rep. Melvin J. Reynolds, sent to 
prison for engaging in bank fraud and campaign violations and having 
sex with an underage campaign worker. _Susan Rosenberg, a 1970s activist 
who was sentenced to 58 years in prison for her participation in the 
bungled 1981 Brink's armored car robbery that left two policemen and 
a guard dead in Rockland County, N.Y. In prison, Rosenberg has renounced 
all radical activity and been a model prisoner. _Linda Sue Evans, 
53, who was sentenced to 40 years in prison for her part in a conspiracy 
to stage a bombing at the U.S. Capitol in 1983 to protest the U.S. 
invasion of Grenada, as well as for illegally buying firearms. Clinton 
and his staff labored over the pardons _ some intensely personal, 
others more traditional _ for several hours in his final days. They 
settled on a list in the wee hours Saturday, but the president asked 
to sleep on it before signing the orders. One of the final decisions 
left to be made concerned McDougal, the former business partner who 
went to prison rather than give testimony about the president sought 
by Whitewater prosecutors. ``I am so grateful,'' she said. ``There 
are tears down my face right now, I don't think I stopped crying since 
I saw the announcement.'' McDougal was convicted of fraud along with 
her ex-husband, the late failed savings and loan owner James McDougal, 
in a 1996 trial at which Clinton testified by videotape. She said 
she was anxious about her pardon request, wondering if the Clintons 
harbored any anger toward her. ``It might have been human nature to 
hold some anger toward me because the investigation had to do with 
business dealings my husband and I had with them,'' she said. McDougal's 
pardon came just one day after the Whitewater investigation was closed 
down under a deal in which Clinton gave up his law license and admitted 
make false testimony under oath about Monica Lewinsky in return for 
prosecutors agreeing not to indict him. A lesser known Whitewater 
figure, Stephen A. Smith, also was pardoned. Smith, a former aide 
to Clinton when he was Arkansas governor, had been convicted of a 
misdemeanor in 1995 in the Whitewater probe. McDougal only served 
3 1/2 months of a two-year prison term for her four felony convictions 
before a federal judge released her because of a back problem. But 
her freedom was short-lived. She defied a judge's order to answer 
Whitewater prosecutor's questions before a federal grand jury and 
was returned to jail for 18 months for civil contempt. Roger Clinton, 
Bill Clinton's under-achieving half brother, was sentenced to two 
years in prison after pleading guilty in 1985 to conspiring to distribute 
cocaine. He cooperated with authorities and testified against other 
drug defendants. He has since focused on an entertainment career. 
Hearst grabbed headlines in the 1970s when, as a 19-year-old heiress, 
she was kidnapped by the radical Symbionese Liberation Army. She was 
later sent to prison for a bank holdup in San Francisco. Her prison 
term was cut short by President Carter, but her convictions remained 
on record until Clinton's pardon. MacDonald, 72, the ailing former 
Navajo leader, has been in a Fort Worth, Texas, medical prison since 
1992. He was one of the famed Navajos used by the U.S. military during 
World War II to stump the Japanese by using their native tongue as 
a communications code. He later rose to chairman of America's largest 
Native American tribe, but became ensnared in controversy and eventually 
was sentenced for his role in a Window Rock, Ariz., riot that killed 
two in 1989. Deutch's pardon spared the one-time spy chief and top 
Pentagon official from deciding whether to enter a misdemeanor plea 
deal in connection with his mishandling of national secrets on a home 
computer. Cisneros was Clinton's first housing secretary. He resigned 
in 1996 amid an investigation into allegations that he lied to the 
FBI about payments he made to a former mistress. In 1999, he pleaded 
guilty to a misdemeanor charge.