Biographic sketches of some of the prominent people on President Clinton's 
list of pardons and commutations, issued Saturday before leaving office: 
COMMUTATION: LINDA SUE EVANS Evans, 53, was ordered in 1990 to serve 
five years for her role in a bombing conspiracy at the U.S. Capitol, 
after completing a 35-year term she was already serving for illegally 
buying firearms. Evans also pleaded guilty to conspiring to set off 
explosions at eight locations in a two-year campaign of ``armed propaganda'' 
to protest government policies. MELVIN REYNOLDS Reynolds, 47, a Chicago 
Democrat, resigned from the House after being convicted in 1995 of 
having sex with a teen-ager. He had more than two years left to serve 
on a 6 1/2-year federal sentence imposed after being convicted of 
lying to obtain loans and of illegally diverting campaign money for 
personal use. He had previously served 2 1/2 years of a five-year 
state sentence for having sexual relations with an underage campaign 
worker. ``He has suffered for his sins and it's time for him to get 
out,'' said Terry Gillespie, a lawyer who defended Reynolds on the 
state charges. SUSAN ROSENBERG In 1984, Rosenberg was found guilty 
of weapons possession and sentenced to 58 years in prison for her 
participation in the bungled 1981 Brink's armored car robbery that 
left two policemen and a guard dead in Rockland County, N.Y. She was 
also arrested in the 1983 Capitol bombing, but the charges were later 
dropped. In prison, Rosenberg has renounced all radical activity and 
been a model prisoner. PARDONED: WILLIAM A. BORDERS JR. The once-prominent 
Washington attorney and former president of the National Bar Association 
was convicted of conspiracy along with then-U.S. District Judge Alcee 
L. Hastings in a Miami racketeering case. While Hastings was acquitted, 
Borders was sentenced to a five-year prison term and disbarred. Borders 
was also held in contempt of court for refusing to testify during 
Hasting's criminal and Senate impeachment trials. HENRY CISNEROS Cisneros, 
52, was housing secretary during Clinton's first term before moving 
to Los Angeles to run Univision, the nation's largest Spanish-language 
television network. In 1999, Cisneros pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor 
after a four-year, $9 million probe into charges he lied about payments 
to a former mistress. ROGER CLINTON Clinton's brother pleaded guilty 
in 1985 to a charge of conspiracy to distribute a single gram of cocaine. 
At the time of his arrest, he was ingesting five to seven grams of 
the drug each day. He served more than a year in prison. JOHN DEUTCH 
Deutch, 61, CIA director from May 1995 to December 1996, stored and 
processed hundreds of files of highly classified material on unprotected 
home computers that he and family members also used to connect to 
the Internet, according to an internal CIA investigation. The Defense 
Department's inspector general found similar conduct during Deutch's 
prior service at the Pentagon. Prosecutors offered Deutch a deal under 
which he would plead guilty to keeping government secrets on unsecured 
home computers and receive no prison time. WILLIAM FUGAZY SR. The 
one-time limousine mogul was a former confidant of New York City Mayor 
Rudolph Giuliani and ex-New York Gov. Mario Cuomo. In 1997, Fugazy 
pleaded guilty to, after having gone bankrupt, shifting some of his 
remaining assets into another company controlled by his children, 
in order to avoid paying creditors who claimed he owed them $75 million. 
He was sentenced to two years of probation for committing perjury. 
PATRICIA HEARST Hearst, 45, was a 19-year-old newspaper heiress who 
was kidnapped by radicals in 1974 and convicted of joining them in 
a San Francisco bank heist. She claimed she was brainwashed by her 
Symbionese Liberation Army captors and forced to participate in the 
armed robbery. President Carter commuted her seven-year sentence after 
she had served 21 months. PETER MACDONALD MacDonald, 72, the former 
leader of the Navajo Nation, has been in a Fort Worth, Texas, medical 
prison since his 1992 sentencing for his role in a Window Rock, Ariz., 
riot that resulted in the deaths of two of his supporters in 1989. 
MacDonald was removed from office for taking bribes and kickbacks. 
The two supporters were killed on July 20, 1989, by tribal police 
during a march to protest what they considered a coup against their 
leader. MacDonald, his health deteriorating, has been serving a 14-year 
sentence for inciting the deadly riot. SUSAN MCDOUGAL McDougal, 46, 
spent 18 months in prison for refusing to testify against the Clinton 
regarding their Whitewater land dealings. Said her decision was based 
on a fear she would be charged with perjury unless she falsely implicated 
the Clintons of wrongdoing. MARC RICH The billionaire commodities 
trader was convicted in the early 1980s on 51 counts of conspiracy, 
tax evasion, racketeering and trading with the enemy. Before his trial, 
he fled to Switzerland to escape the charges. The Swiss have refused 
to extradite him.