George Walker Bush, swearing the same oath as his father before him, 
became America's 43rd president Saturday, pledging to ``build a single 
nation of justice and opportunity'' after one of the most turbulent 
elections in history. Bush said he would lead with ``civility, courage, 
compassion and character.'' Seven members of his Cabinet won swift 
Senate approval as the Republicans moved in after eight years of Democratic 
rule. On a day blending inaugural pageantry and protests, Bush succeeded 
Bill Clinton with a promise to heal the nation's divisions. ``People 
say, `Well, gosh, the election was so close, nothing will happen, 
except for finger pointing and name calling and bitterness,'' Bush 
said at a luncheon with congressional leaders. ``I'm here to tell 
the country that things will get done, that we're going to rise above 
expectations, that both Republicans and Democrats will come together 
to do what's right for America.'' The inauguration, witnessed by a 
crowd stretching out from the West Front of the Capitol, marked the 
opening of the first Republican-controlled White House and Congress 
since the Eisenhower era. Spectators were bundled in heavy coats and 
ponchos on a cold, raw day. Police in riot gear stood five deep between 
Bush's motorcade and protesters on the inaugural parade route. An 
egg was thrown from a group of demonstrators toward Bush's limousine, 
startling Secret Service agents. A few blocks later an orange was 
tossed toward his car, rolling past. Police pinned down two protesters 
who jumped security barriers and got within 30 feet of the limousine. 
The new president delighted onlookers when he got out of his car. 
Protected by heavy security, he walked the last block of the parade 
holding hands with his wife. Bush and his extended family watched 
the inaugural parade with umbrellas overhead during an intermittent 
hard rain. There were bands, floats, riders on horseback, a precision 
lawn chair demonstration team _ even a group of Idaho women in red 
house dresses and blue aprons who danced with shopping carts. It was 
a pomp-filled end to a campaign which saw Bush finish second in the 
popular vote but a narrow winner in the all-important electoral competition. 
Departing Vice President Al Gore, Bush's defeated rival, watched the 
proceedings stoically, a silent reminder of the five-week post-election 
battle that was stopped by the Supreme Court. Richard Cheney was sworn 
is as vice president at 11:57 a.m. Bush followed at 12:02 p.m., then 
reached for his father's right hand and hugged him, putting his left 
hand around his dad's head. The senior Bush wiped away a tear and 
the new president's eyes welled up, too. It was the second time in 
American history a son had followed his father to the White House. 
John Quincy Adams traced his father's steps 176 years ago. A traditional 
21-gun salute marked the change of command as Bush fought back tears 
again _ and snapped a salute to the crowd _ after the National Anthem 
was played. In one of his first acts, Bush formally submitted his 
Cabinet nominations to the Senate. Among those quickly confirmed and 
sworn into office were Colin Powell as secretary of state, Donald 
Rumsfeld as defense secretary, Paul O'Neill as treasury secretary 
and Spencer Abraham as energy secretary. Bush signed an executive 
order establishing ethical standards for his new administration, and 
moved to halt Clinton's blizzard of executive orders and rules. Among 
the targets were new Medicare guidelines and environmental protections. 
The president also ordered a temporary federal hiring freeze until 
his new Cabinet members are in place. In a 15-minute inaugural address, 
Bush thanked Gore for ``a contest conducted with spirit and ended 
with grace.'' Pledging to work for reconciliation, Bush said, ``Sometimes 
our differences run so deep it seems we share a continent but not 
a country. ``We do not accept this and will not allow it,'' Bush declared. 
``Our unity, our union, is the serious work of leaders and citizens 
in every generation. And this is my solemn pledge: I will work to 
build a single nation of justice and opportunity.'' His promise brought 
a burst of applause from spectators. It was a day of triumph and glory 
for the new president and his family, which bears one of the most 
prominent names in American politics. It began with worship at St. 
John's Episcopal Church, across Lafayette Park from the White House, 
and ran late into the night with eight black-tie inaugural balls drawing 
almost 50,000 revelers. ``I'm looking forward to getting to work. 
There's a lot to be done but before we start to work there's some 
dancing to be done,'' he told the cheering crowd at the Texas-Wyoming 
ball, held in part of the Washington Convention Center. Bush's father, 
the nation's 41st president but vanquished by Clinton in 1992, watched 
with pride as his son swore his oath, his left hand resting on the 
same Bible that George Washington used. Former first lady Barbara 
Bush watched with a smile, wearing a transparent rain poncho. A black 
limousine, its flags snapping in the wind, carried Bush and Clinton 
to the Capitol after their meeting at the White House. Clinton left 
office with 11th hour pardons for 140 Americans, including his former 
Whitewater business partner Susan McDougal, brother Roger Clinton, 
who spent two years in jail in the 1980s on a drug charge, and former 
CIA Director John Deutch, accused of mishandling national secrets 
on a home computer. Another pardon went to Patricia Campbell Hearst 
Shaw for her actions in the 1970s as Patty Hearst. In the final moments 
before Bush came calling, Clinton and his wife, Sen. Hillary Rodham 
Clinton, were spotted through a window dancing together in the foyer. 
When the new first family arrived, Bush's wife Laura greeted Mrs. 
Clinton with, ``Good morning, senator.'' Clinton wasn't leaving quietly. 
He spoke to wistful supporters _ including Cabinet and staff _ at 
an unusual rally at Andrews Air Force Base before flying to New York, 
his newly adopted home state. ``I left the White House but I'm still 
here,'' he said at one point. ``We're not going anywhere.'' Aides 
organized a second rally to welcome Clinton to New York. As Bush took 
his oath of office, wife Laura held the Bible, a wide smile on her 
face. Twin daughters, 19-year-olds Jenna and Barbara, watched expectantly 
and broke into grins as their dad finished. A smile kept crossing 
as he recited the oath. He breathed a deep sigh at the end. Bush was 
sworn in by Chief Justice William Rehnquist, who voted with the majority 
in the 5-4 decision that handed him the presidency. Bush offered a 
special message to Americans who ``doubt the promise, even the justice, 
of our own country,'' promising that he would strive to ensure opportunity 
and equality for all. He found scant support among minority voters 
in the disputed election; blacks opposed him 10 to 1 and some still 
question the legitimacy of his victory. Democratic Rep. William Jefferson, 
a black lawmaker from Louisiana, said most Democrats came to the inauguration 
because ``we realize we have to go on with out responsibilities.'' 
But Jefferson also said he couldn't help but think about ``the opportunities 
lost'' with Gore's defeat. Bush promised to make America ``more just 
and generous'' and set a handful of specific goals: _ Action to ``reclaim 
America's schools.'' _ Reform of Social Security and Medicare. _ Tax 
cuts ``to recover the momentum of our economy'' and reward the effort 
of working Americans. _ A national defense ``beyond challenge,'' and 
action to confront ``weapons of mass destruction,'' the national missile 
defense system he advocates. Bush won office in the closest presidential 
election in 124 years. Gore received 539,947 more votes than Bush 
on Nov. 7 but, when the battle for Florida ended in the Supreme Court 
five weeks later, Bush had 271 electoral votes, one more than a majority. 
Gore had 267. The new president inherits a Congress sharply divided, 
with an evenly split Senate, the first since 1881, and a House in 
which Republicans hold only a five-vote edge. Cheney's tie-breaking 
Senate vote gives Republicans the edge there.