The black plumes of smoke rising from Yugoslavia's federal Parliament 
building as a flag-waving throng storms the building will forever 
define the Serbian revolution that toppled Slobodan Milosevic. In 
its way, the image has the force of the photograph of a soldier planting 
the Soviet flag atop the Reichstag in Berlin in 1945. Both images 
are overwhelming in their glorious finality. But Yevgeny Khaldei's 
Reichstag photograph was a perfect representation of victory in a 
bloody war, whereas the iconic images of the end of Milosevic's 13-year 
rule seem to offer a partial truth. Without the critical injection 
of force at a pivotal moment _ the hard men from central Serbia storming 
past the hesitant police and their tear gas _ the opposition's protests 
might have proved as ineffectual as they so often had in the past. 
But Milosevic was downed less by violent upheaval than by the broad, 
massive, nonviolent protest that has characterized the fall of so 
many authoritarian regimes in recent years. What goes around comes 
around. It was always clear that the cycle of war that went out from 
Belgrade in the early 1990s would one day end where it began. Milosevic 
and Balkan stability were always incompatible. But what few predicted 
was that Serbia might join the Philippines, Chile and the post-communist 
states of central Europe in outlining a modern paradigm: revolution 
through bloodless consensus. In this light, Serbia's revolution was 
perhaps best captured by the failed attempt of the army and its chief, 
Nebojsa Pavkovic, to break a crippling strike at the Kolubara coal 
mine this week. Here, a day before the storming of the Parliament, 
it became clear that the police were unwilling to use force to break 
up a protest movement that had spread to workers. So by the time that 
movement entered the Parliament, it was in effect pitted against an 
enemy that had already indicated a willingness to surrender. As in 
so many recent popular revolts, the falling ruler's fate was sealed 
as he lost the instruments of power one by one. Milosevic was stripped 
first of the television stations he had used so skillfully to stoke 
Serb nationalism and a brooding sense of victimization; then of the 
courts he had manipulated, which on Wednesday nullified the election 
but on Friday pronounced his rival the winner; and finally, of the 
police and the army. ``Nonviolent resistance is not a magic wand, 
it's a strategy,'' said Jack DuVall, the co-author of ``A Force More 
Powerful: A Century of Nonviolent Conflict'' (St. Martins Press), 
a new book on peaceful protest. ``The essential thing, as Gandhi saw, 
is to detach a regime from its means of support. The Serbian opposition 
understood this, and the critical detachment occurred in the last 
two weeks.'' It is not over yet, of course. Serbia's soft revolution 
is still a muddle. The style of Vojislav Kostunica, the president-elect 
and a constitutional lawyer who became a revolutionary despite himself, 
is slow-moving, an advantage in coalition-building but not necessarily 
in revolution-handling in a state whose borders remain unclear. He 
is at the apex of a federation whose very existence is in question. 
He will have to confront the push for independence from Kosovo, still 
nominally a Serbian province, and a tense standoff with Montenegro, 
the other republic of the Yugoslav federation. Serbia has yet to face 
the delicate and charged question of how, or whether, it will confront 
the brutalities of the Milosevic years. Kostunica is a democrat, but 
he is also a Serbian nationalist, though not of the virulent strain 
Milosevic fostered and exploited. He has shown no inclination to bow 
to U.S. pressure to deliver Milosevic to the international war crimes 
tribunal in The Hague, and he has said the question of war crimes 
by Serbs should be addressed alongside the question of whether NATO 
too committed them when it bombed Serbia. Events could spill in all 
kinds of directions, including one that might leave Milosevic and 
his influential wife, Mira Markovic, no better off than Nicolae Ceausescu 
and his wife, Elena, who were executed by their fellow Romanians in 
1989. If Kostunica has continuously urged restraint, it is because 
he understands that aggression would merely have played into the hands 
of a regime that always practiced the politics of violence. Why play 
on your enemy's terms? That calculation was clear enough. But what 
combination of the international zeitgeist and the state of Serbia 
led Milosevic to quit (to spend more time with his grandson, he said!) 
rather than order his forces to open fire and suppress Kostunica's 
revolt? After all, he had little hesitation in suppressing Albanian 
strikers in Kosovo in the late '80s or students in Belgrade in '91. 
One factor is clearly that the post-Cold War rise of the politics 
of ethics and human rights, after the discrediting of totalitarianism 
and communist systems, have limited a strongman's margin for maneuver, 
especially as any crackdown is instantaneously beamed to a worldwide 
audience. Global politics and technology are inimical to the use of 
brutality in ways that are increasingly persuasive and that did not 
exist in Prague in 1968. ``The general trend is such that any army 
commander in a place like Serbia is going to ask: Even if we can resist 
this for one week, scatter the protesters for a few days, what then?'' 
said Jonathan Eyal, a British strategic analyst. ``In 1945, communism 
was a thing of the future. Today you have to ask the point of executing 
an order to fire.'' Especially for a man as isolated as Milosevic. 
A ruined economy, a lost war in Kosovo, an indictment from the tribunal 
in The Hague, all led to his progressive alienation from his people 
and the countries around him. ``Come home to Europe,'' Tony Blair, 
the British prime minister, exhorted the Serbian people as Milosevic 
tottered. Europe, here, was shorthand for human dignity, democracy 
and the rule of law. Such ideas have proved increasingly compelling. 
Certainly, from the fall of Ferdinand Marcos in the Philippines in 
1986, to the rejection in a plebiscite of the Pinochet regime in Chile 
in 1987, to Romania in 1989, to the failed Soviet putsch in Moscow 
in 1991, to Serbia today, a pattern seems clear enough. Once a catalyst 
has sparked nonviolent protest on a broad scale, the army is not ready 
to fire _ or go on firing for long enough _ on its own people. The 
exception to this pattern, of course, was at Tiananmen Square, where 
Chinese authorities quashed the student revolt. No stronger image 
of passive resistance could be found, or imagined, than the solitary 
student who stood before a Chinese tank. Yet it proved ineffective. 
``The mistake in China was the students' decision to maximize demands 
before trying to broaden their movement,'' Duvall argued. ``The success 
of nonviolent protest ultimately hinges on having a broad base.'' 
As Serbs set fire to the federal Parliament building, Gerhard Schroeder, 
Germany's leader, sent a message to the Yugoslav army and the Serbian 
police force: ``My appeal _ and I say this as German chancellor on 
the basis of our experience during the time of the Berlin Wall _ is 
don't fire on your own people. That would be a tragedy.'' In fact, 
it was the fall of the Wall that removed the last bastion _ in Moscow 
_ that might have given some cover for an act of violent repression 
by Milosevic. That is why he persisted for so long in saying that 
the fall of the Soviet Union was not irreversible. As Milosevic kept 
rowing against the tide of history, he increasingly developed a sort 
of soft dictatorship _ a ``dictablanda'' rather than a ``dictadura.'' 
This combined elements of a dictatorship _ a powerful secret police, 
effective control of the media, fear-mongering propaganda, a secretive 
style of government _ with acts like holding the very presidential 
election that ultimately led to his fall. His error, in the end, was 
to believe he could control the vote through the authoritarian methods 
at his disposal. Once that failed, he was no longer enough of a dictator 
to hold power by other means.