Susan McDougal, who served time for fraud convictions stemming from 
the failed Whitewater land deal, said Saturday that President Clinton's 
pardon reinforced her assertion that she is innocent. In one of his 
final acts as president, Clinton pardoned 140 people, including three 
other people convicted during investigations linked to Whitewater: 
former Whitewater real estate agent Chris Wade, university professor 
Stephen A. Smith, and former Madison Guaranty appraiser Robert W. 
Palmer. Not on the list were McDougal's former husband, James McDougal, 
who was convicted in the same 1996 trial and died while serving his 
prison sentence; former Gov. Jim Guy Tucker, who was convicted with 
the McDougals, and Webster Hubbell, a former law partner of Hillary 
Rodham Clinton and Justice Department official. A jury convicted Susan 
McDougal, a former business partner of the Clintons, of four counts 
of fraud in a 1996 trial. She served 18 months for contempt for refusing 
to answer questions about Clinton, then three months of a two-year 
sentence on the fraud convictions before being sentenced to time served 
and released because of health problems. ``I am so grateful,'' McDougal 
said Saturday in a telephone interview from a friend's house in Arkadelphia. 
``There are tears down my face right now. I don't think I stopped 
crying since I saw the announcement.'' Tucker served 18 months' home 
detention for the 1996 convictions, but still has appeals pending 
in the case. Hubbell, who was a law partner of Hillary Rodham Clinton 
at the Rose Law firm in Little Rock, pleaded guilty and was sentenced 
to 21 months in federal prison over his billing practices at the firm. 
He did not seek a pardon. Until word of her pardon arrived, McDougal 
said she was uncertain whether Clinton would grant her clemency. ``It 
might have been human nature to hold some anger toward me because 
the investigation had to do with business dealings my husband and 
I had with them,'' McDougal said. She said the pardon lifted a burden 
she'd carried since she was first investigated in 1986. ``I wasn't 
guilty. It's a horrible thing going through your life knowing you 
are innocent,'' McDougal said. ``This is a wonderful lifting of that 
stone that I had carried a long time.'' Although Wade was a salesman 
for Whitewater, his felony charges were unrelated to the business. 
He pleaded guilty in March 1995 to bankruptcy fraud and making a false 
statement to a bank. He served 13 months of a 15-month prison term. 
``Being a felon, I couldn't even go squirrel hunting. I couldn't vote 
and I couldn't run for public office, which is about the last thing 
I considered doing,'' he said. For Clinton, he had nothing but kind 
words. ``I think he did a great job and I have absolutely no animosity 
toward Clinton whatsoever,'' he said. Smith, a communications professor 
at the University of Arkansas, pleaded guilty in June 1995 to misdemeanor 
conspiracy to misapply the funds of a loan from a government-backed 
lending company. He was sentenced to a year of probation, 100 hours 
of community service, and fined $1,000. Reached while judging a debate 
tournament at Arkansas Tech University in Russellville, Smith said 
only, ``If they want to pardon someone, let them pardon Ken Starr. 
He's the only criminal in this whole thing.'' Starr was the independent 
counsel throughout most of the Whitewater investigation, and had sought 
many of the convictions. Palmer pleaded guilty in December 1994 to 
a felony count of conspiracy to file false appraisals for Madison 
Guaranty Savings and Loan. He was sentenced to a year of home detention, 
three years probation, and fined $5,000. Palmer could be reached Saturday 
for comment. McDougal said she would continue as an advocate for women 
in prison, pushing for improved living conditions. She said she likely 
would get involved in politics. ``I'll be working for any Democrat 
who wants to run for president,'' she said.