questions are emerging tonight about some of the last-minute pardons 
granted by bill clinton yesterday. there were 140 in all. one name 
on the list, marc rich, isn't as well-known to the public as patty 
hearst and susan m dougal. who were also pardoned. but law enforcement 
officials know rich very well. they've been chasing him for years. 
here's abc's josh gerstein. as president clinton spent his first full 
day as a private citizen in chappaqua, new york, he was asked to explain 
the 140 pardons he granted just hours before leaving office. you're 
not saying, these people didn't commit the offense. you're saying, 
thepaid. they paid in full. the vast majority of the pardons went 
to people who had already paid their debt to society. but one went 
to marc rich, a billionaire oil trader who fled to switzerland in 
1983, just as he was being indicted on 65 counts of tax evasion, racketeering 
and other charges. rich was also accused of trading with iran during 
the hostage crisis. his companies paid roughly $200 million in fines, 
but u.s. marshals spent 17 years trying to capture rich in europe. 
new york mayor ry giuliani was once a prosecutor on the case. i'm 
shocked that the president of the united states would pardon him. 
after all, he never paid a price. he got on an airplane, took all 
of his records and r off to switzerland, where he's remained a fugitive 
since then, spending money buying the town. and has made untold efforts 
to try to get the charges reduced, including many, man overtures based 
on the use of influence. rich's ex-wife, denise, is close to president 
clinton. she is a devoted fund-raiser who has contributed more than 
$600,000 to democratic causes in recent years. mr. clinton said he 
gave rich's case careful consideration. i spent a lot of time on that 
case. i think there are very good reasons for it. and i couldn't say 
them any better than jack quinn, mr. rich's attorney. jack quinn used 
to be president clinton's white hoe counsel. he managed to persuade 
his former boss that changes in the law in the last 17 years undercut 
the charges against rich, and that it might be tough for the billionaire 
to ever get a fair trial. josh gerstein, abc news, new york.