Anna Kournikova says it ``feels like yesterday'' that she last made 
the quarterfinals at a Grand Slam. Even if the gap was 3 1/2 years. 
``Time flies, huh!'' Kournikova said after reaching the quarterfinals 
at the Australian Open. The last time she made it this deep into a 
major was the summer of 1997, when she was a semifinalist at Wimbledon. 
Kournikova advanced to the Australian Open quarters Sunday with a 
6-3, 6-1 win over unseeded Barbara Rittner. She now faces Lindsay 
Davenport, the defending titlist and No. 2 seed. ``Me and Lindsay, 
we've had some tough matches ... (but) I have a good record against 
her. I've beaten her a few times,'' Kournikova said. ``I'm not playing 
at my best right now but I will go out there and fight as much as 
I can _ we'll see what happens.'' Davenport, a winner of three Grand 
Slam titles and a gold medal at the 1996 Olympics, has a 5-3 lead 
in head-to-head play against Kournikova, including a 6-2, 6-2 sweep 
in the fourth round of the Australian Open a year ago. A singles title 
still eludes Kournikova, although she finished 1998 as the world's 
No. 1-ranked doubles player and lifted the Australian Open doubles 
crown with Martina Hingis the following year. Kournikova burst onto 
the pro tour by making the fourth round at the U.S. Open in 1996. 
The following year, as a 16-year-old, she became only the second woman 
in the Open era to reach the semis on her debut at Wimbledon; Chris 
Evert was the first in 1972. At Wimbledon, she upset No. 5 seed Iva 
Majoli in the quarters and No. 10 Anke Huber in the third round after 
rallying from match point down in the second round against Rittner. 
Rittner almost took revenge Sunday, running Kournikova all around 
the court to take a 3-1 lead. But Kournikova calmed herself and, after 
breaking back, held serve to level at 3-3 when she picked up a low 
half-volley and produced a forehand winner down the line. The sixth 
game had gone to deuce nine times. She broke Rittner at love in the 
next game and dominated the remainder of the match. ``I'm definitely 
happy with the result, and it's great to be playing so well at a Grand 
Slam again,'' she said. Kournikova has made the fourth round at a 
Grand Slam on seven occasions, each time losing to a seeded player. 
At Melbourne Park, she said she finally got the luck of the draw. 
``Every time I got to the fourth round, I wasn't really seeded or 
I always played higher-ranked players,'' she said. ``I lost to Lindsay 
here before, Mary (Pierce) and Martina (Hingis) and so I've always 
lost to the players that were, you know, either winners or got far.'' 
Davenport, who beat No. 15-seeded Kim Clijsters 6-4, 6-0, said she 
was starting to feel excited going into the second week and anticipated 
a difficult clash against Kournikova. ``Getting through the round 
of 16 is a big round _ now you know that the really tough matches 
are here,'' she said.