Four points from defeat, Pete Sampras crouched behind the baseline 
to receive serve, desperate for a sign of shakiness by Todd Martin. 
A veteran player known to blow a lead, Martin was now trying to serve 
out an upset victory against a friend who had beaten him 13 times 
in a row. With a berth in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open 
at stake, Martin wavered only briefly. He rushed a forehand into the 
net, then smacked two serves that Sampras couldn't handle, put away 
a difficult volley and belted another service winner to complete a 
6-7 (2), 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 victory. ``I give him all the credit in the 
world,'' the third-seeded Sampras said. ``I don't think I played poorly. 
I played fine. He just played better than I did. That's the best he 
has played against me in many years.'' The upset spoiled a potential 
showdown Tuesday between Sampras and defending champion Andre Agassi. 
Instead, Martin will get the chance to avenge a painful loss last 
year at Wimbledon, when he blew a 5-2 fifth-set lead against Agassi 
and was unable to convert two match points. ``Today proved to me that 
I can serve out a match,'' Martin said. Sampras' defeat left the tournament 
without its three top seeded men. No. 2 Marat Safin lost Sunday to 
No. 14 Dominik Hrbaty 6-2, 7-6 (6), 6-4, and No. 1 Gustavo Kuerten 
was eliminated Thursday. Hrbaty's next opponent will be No. 12 Patrick 
Rafter, who ousted No. 8 Tim Henman 6-2, 6-3, 6-3. Rafter reached 
the quarterfinals of his country's biggest tournament for the first 
time just days after announcing he may retire at year's end. Two women's 
quarterfinal matchups were determined Sunday: No. 4 Monica Seles against 
No. 12 Jennifer Capriati, and No. 8 Anna Kournikova against No. 2 
Lindsay Davenport, the defending champion. There will be talk that 
Sampras' defeat is another sign of his decline, particularly in the 
wake of the drubbing Safin administered to him in the U.S. Open final 
last September. But in both matches, Sampras simply ran into a red-hot 
player. ``I would assume Andre Agassi is pretty darned pleased Pete 
lost today,'' Martin said. ``A couple of other guys might be as well. 
In my mind he's still the best player in the world.'' Sampras was 
not at his best in Melbourne, struggling through a trio of three-hour 
victories before losing. Usually dominant with his serve, he was broken 
17 times in four matches, and he failed to snap his streak of not 
winning a major event other than Wimbledon since the 1997 Australian 
Open. But at 29, Sampras remains hungry to add to his record 13 Grand 
Slam titles. He has even committed to a full clay-court season in 
preparation for the only major tournament to elude him, the French 
Open. ``I feel like I can still win majors, and I'd like to win a 
couple more before it's all said and done,'' he said. ``I know I can 
do it. It's disappointing not to do it here, but I've got many years 
and many Slams ahead of me.'' The weather, mild Sunday after two scorching 
days, wasn't a factor in Sampras' latest loss. Recurring foot blisters 
_ common for him on the Australian Open's Rebound Ace surface _ weren't 
a factor either, he said. The problem was Martin, whose losing streak 
against Sampras dated to 1995. Martin lost to his fellow American 
in tournaments large and small, outdoors and indoors, on hardcourts, 
carpet and clay. But this time he out-served Sampras and had the better 
return as well. In the second set, Martin cracked three return winners 
to break for a 5-3 lead, then served out the set to even the match. 
He broke again in the third game of the next set to take the lead 
for good. ``I don't know what I could have done,'' Sampras said. ``I 
needed for him to drop off a little bit.'' It didn't happen; Martin 
refused to crack and remained calm even after the final point. Instead 
of a jubilant display in victory, Martin met Sampras at the net with 
a sympathetic pat on the back. ``Pete's a friend of mine, and I don't 
like to see him lose,'' Martin said. ``But if I have to see him lose, 
I'd just as soon it be to me.''