President Clinton may have heeded federal prosecutors' pleas to deny 
Michael Milken a pardon, but the financier's case is unlikely to fade 
completely. The man who built Wall Street's junk bond market continues 
to spend much of his wealth on cancer research and other charitable 
causes. Milken takes quick offense at suggestions that his philanthropic 
activities, which moved into high gear after his release from prison 
in 1993, are an attempt to restore his public image or win a pardon. 
And he has many friends to argue his case. ``I've never met anyone 
who was more passionate about truly making the world a better place 
for people to live, as corny as that may sound,'' Ted Virtue, a Milken 
colleague at Drexel and president of Deutsche Bank Securities, said. 
``I don't think it's a facade.'' Milken pleaded guilty to six counts 
of security fraud in 1990 and was barred from the securities business 
for life. In 1995, federal authorities began investigating Milken 
again, soon after it became public that Milken received a fee of $50 
million for helping to broker Time Warner's purchase of Turner Broadcasting. 
The SEC sued Milken in February 1998 for violating his pledge not 
to re-enter the securities business. Without admitting to or denying 
the allegations, Milken agreed to repay $47 million in brokerage fees. 
As President Clinton prepared to hand over office, he was considering 
scores of pardon requests, including one on Milken's behalf. Milken 
and his family have given more than $750 million away over the past 
30 years, according to a Milken spokesman. Much of it is channeled 
through the Milken Family Foundation, founded in 1982, which funds 
education and medical research, especially in the area of cancer. 
Several Milken family members have suffered from cancer. Only days 
after his release from a federal prison, after serving 22 months of 
a 10-year sentence for securities fraud, Milken was diagnosed with 
prostate cancer, which is now in remission. He responded by launching 
CaP CURE, an association to fund cancer research into the deadly disease. 
Milken, 54, is also chairman of the Milken Institute, a nonprofit 
think tank, and Knowledge Universe, a for-profit company that invests 
in a variety of young companies. Samuel Broder, a former head of the 
National Cancer Institute who now is vice president of Celera Genomics, 
said Milken's efforts have accelerated research into prostate cancer 
and other diseases and had a lasting impact on the careers of many 
scientists. ``He fostered a lot of research activity that would not 
have gotten done otherwise,'' Broder said. Federal officials acknowledge 
his charitable activities, but have argued that they should not overshadow 
the harm they say he has done to the country's financial markets. 
Richard Walker, enforcement director of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, wrote the White House opposing a presidential pardon saying, 
``Few people have done more than Milken to undermine public confidence 
in our markets.'' Walker also wrote, ``Philanthropy cannot provide 
a license to violate the law.'' Milken's misconduct during the 1990s, 
Walker said, showed Milken's ``continuing contempt for the law and 
discredits any claim that he has learned from his mistakes and has 
been rehabilitated.'' Friends and associates of Milken reject the 
notion that Milken used his philanthropy as a shield for illegal activities 
or wants a pardon so he can resume his securities activities. Geoffrey 
Moore, senior vice president of Knowledge Universe and Milken's spokesman, 
said Milken is not planning a return to high finance should he be 
pardoned. ``He feels he has more than a lifetime's worth of work in 
his medical research and education initiatives,'' Moore said. Wall 
Street observers generally agree that Milken made lasting contributions 
to the financial markets. They differ on whether those achievements, 
along with his philanthropy, merit a pardon. ``Michael Milken helped 
bring many companies to market that otherwise would not have been 
able to,'' said Alan Shapiro, a professor of banking and finance at 
the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California. 
Shapiro believes Milken may have angered investment bankers, corporate 
leaders and federal regulators with his aggressive tactics, prompting 
authorities to make him an example. ``If it had been anyone other 
than Milken, he wouldn't have been prosecuted,'' he said. ``At best, 
he should have had civil, not criminal, penalties imposed.'' A presidential 
pardon may change Milken's legal status, but it is unlikely to change 
many minds. ``Milken was a crook. He pleaded guilty to felony counts,'' 
said Mark Eaker, a professor of business administration at the Darden 
Graduate School of Business at the University of Virginia. ``Regardless 
of what else he has or hasn't done or what you think of him, that's 
a fact.''