It took about nine years, including a surreal streak of 13 straight 
losses, before the stubborn Todd Martin finally applied his epiphany 
to the court against Pete Sampras. Long ago, he had had the ``aha'' 
moment. Martin knew the only way to approach Sampras was to stare 
him down in a game of chicken. He had just never had the will to do 
it before Sunday evening at the Australian Open. For an entire match, 
Martin just kept coming, jamming Sampras with serves into his body, 
taking big swipes at second-serve opportunities and forcing the third-seeded 
legend to pass him with his backhand. It was victory or bust. And 
the plan was executed to near perfection as Martin, who has had spotlight 
moments unravel on him before, held on to his nerve to defeat an unsteady 
Sampras, 6-7 (2), 6-3, 6-4, 6-4, advancing to a quarterfinal match 
against Andre Agassi. ``I think I was sold a bill of goods, and I 
was fortunate enough to believe it,'' said Martin, who had been told 
repeatedly by his coaches to dictate the match. ``Every time I've 
ever played Pete, I kept on making adjustments along the way rather 
than sticking to my guns and having a shoot-out with him. Today, I 
finally stuck to my guns.'' He was almost flawless. With neat and 
crisp volleys, with a first serve that splashed down on target, Martin 
exited the court after committing only 12 unforced errors in the face 
of the player who has been his career demon. Before the Round of 16 
match, Sampras held a gaudy 17-2 record against Martin. And the 30-year-old 
sage had not beaten Sampras since 1995. ``You know, nothing feels 
better than to know that I did something today that I've never done 
before,'' Martin said. ``I don't feel like I was very committed to 
doing it the right way before; and today, I did it the right way. 
If I would have lost, I still would have felt pretty good about it.'' 
Sampras looked helpless to stop Martin. Sampras didn't complain about 
the blisters on his feet, but his mobility appeared restricted. As 
usual, Sampras' tongue was hanging out and his shoulders were slumped 
but he usually has a little burst in reserve for the big points. This 
time, he was out of heroics. Never quite finding the edge on his wicked 
service game this week, Sampras quietly departed after four matches 
filled with uncommon struggle. ``I didn't feel like I played poorly,'' 
Sampras said. ``I feel like I played fine. He just served huge. He 
always got the first serve in. I always felt I was under pressure 
in my service games. He just played better than I did today. ``I felt 
fine physically. I got through some tough matches and I felt like 
if I could get my game going today, possibly get into the second week, 
I could be dangerous.'' The Sampras threat was over, though. He had 
company on his way out of town. On Sunday, a handful of other brand 
names gathered their things, as well, including second-seeded Marat 
Safin and eighth-seeded Tim Henman. A tempestuous Safin slammed his 
rackets and created a couple of scenes but didn't have the energy 
to fluster the 14th-seeded Dominik Hrbaty, who won, 6-2, 7-6 (6), 
6-4. Unusually slow-footed and visibly timid, Safin could not get 
himself together long enough to extend a rally before delivering one 
of his 47 unforced errors. ``I didn't move him at all,'' Safin said. 
``The guy, he wouldn't sweat. He was very comfortable from the baseline 
because I was making all the work. I was making unforced errors. He 
was much better than me. ``If you don't have confidence, you cannot 
play. I had no confidence at all. I was playing from the baseline, 
which is my best game, but I was afraid all the time. I was afraid 
to hit the ball.'' Henman couldn't have been too at ease, either. 
Inside Rod Laver Arena, packed with percolating Aussies, Henman hardly 
stood a chance against the resident folk hero, Patrick Rafter, who 
lit up the crowd with a 6-2, 6-3, 6-3 victory. For the first time 
in his career, Rafter advanced to the quarterfinals of his home-based 
major in what will likely be his last season on the Tour. Almost as 
a going-away present, the barrier to his route through the draw was 
lifted. ``I looked across the net and went, `Oh, finally,''' Rafter 
said. ``It was a relief as much as it was exciting for me. I was very, 
very satisfied.'' Martin had that look, as well. He didn't explode 
with a celebration on match point when Sampras mishandled another 
serve into the body. Instead, he was subdued after defeating his nemesis 
and friend. More than anything, Martin looked at peace. For all of 
Martin's miracle comebacks, there have been some memorable occasions 
when he has failed to tie up a majors match that he controlled. In 
1996, on Wimbledon's Center Court, Martin's composure turned to dust 
against MaliVai Washington, losing after taking a 5-1 lead in the 
fifth set. Last year, he had Agassi buried beneath a 5-2 deficit before 
allowing him to escape at Wimbledon, too. ``That wasn't the greatest 
experience for me,'' Martin said. ``I lost a match I had a great chance 
to win. It's not the first time that has happened. ``That memory is 
gone as far as anything other than realizing that it can happen and 
to try to be better prepared for it. If my rematch comes with Andre 
in Memphis, Tenn., or Melbourne, Australia, it's fine. It has nothing 
to do with him. It has something to do with me. Today, I proved to 
myself that I could serve out a match.''