Biographic sketches of some of the prominent people on President Clinton's 
list of pardons and commutations, issued Saturday before leaving office: 
COMMUTATIONS: DAVID RONALD CHANDLER Chandler at one point was in line 
to be the first person executed by the federal government since 1963. 
He was convicted in 1991 of running a drug ring that trafficked marijuana 
from the foothills of northeast Alabama and was condemned to death 
for ordering the murder of an associate-turned-informant. He was the 
first person sentenced to die under a 1988 drug law, and was given 
a March 30, 1995, execution date. However, a federal judge blocked 
the execution to give the courts more time to consider issues raised 
by Chandler's appeals. JACOB ELBAUM Elbaum, 40, was one of three Hasidic 
Jews from Rockland County, New York, convicted in January 1999 of 
stealing tens of millions of dollars in federal grants and loans to 
finance a fictitious yeshiva in Brooklyn. They were ordered to repay 
the money in fines and were sentenced to serve sentences ranging from 
two years to seven years in prison. The commutation reduced each man's 
sentence to 30 months. LINDA SUE EVANS Evans, 53, was ordered in 1990 
to serve five years for her role in a bombing conspiracy at the U.S. 
Capitol after completing a 35-year term she was already serving for 
illegally buying firearms. Evans also pleaded guilty to conspiring 
to set off explosions at eight locations in a two-year campaign of 
``armed propaganda'' to protest government policies. DAVID GOLDSTEIN 
Goldstein, 54, was one of three men from a community of Hasidic Jews 
in Rockland County, New York, convicted in January 1999 of stealing 
tens of millions of dollars in federal grants and loans to finance 
a fictitious yeshiva in Brooklyn. They were ordered to repay the money 
in fines and were sentenced to serve sentences ranging from two years 
to seven years in prison. The commutation reduced each man's sentence 
to 30 months. ARNOLD PAUL PROSPERI Prosperi, 52, a college friend 
of Bill Clinton and a fund-raiser for him, was convicted of filing 
false tax returns and scheming to steal millions from a client. Prosecutors 
said the prominent Hobe Sound, Fla., lawyer wrote himself checks from 
the accounts of an offshore company set up by the client, an Irish 
citizen. He was sentenced in 1998 to three years in prison. Prosperi 
suffers from myasthenia gravis, an illness that causes extreme muscle 
weakness. MELVIN REYNOLDS Reynolds, 47, a Chicago Democrat, resigned 
from the House after being convicted in 1995 of having sex with a 
teen-ager. He had more than two years left to serve on a 6 1/2-year 
federal sentence imposed after being convicted of lying to obtain 
loans and of illegally diverting campaign money for personal use. 
He had previously served 2 1/2 years of a five-year state sentence 
for having sexual relations with an underage campaign worker. SUSAN 
ROSENBERG In 1984, Rosenberg was found guilty of weapons possession 
and sentenced to 58 years in prison for her participation in the bungled 
1981 Brink's armored car robbery that left two policemen and a guard 
dead in Rockland County, N.Y. She was also arrested in the 1983 Capitol 
bombing, but the charges were later dropped. In prison, Rosenberg 
has renounced all radical activity and been a model prisoner. KALMEN 
STERN Stern, 42, was one of three men from a community of Hasidic 
Jews in Rockland County, New York, convicted in January 1999 of stealing 
tens of millions of dollars in federal grants and loans to finance 
a fictitious yeshiva in Brooklyn. They were ordered to repay the money 
in fines and were sentenced to serve sentences ranging from two years 
to seven years in prison. The commutation reduced each man's sentence 
to 30 months. PARDONS: WILLIAM STERLING ANDERSON Anderson, 58, a former 
South Carolina House Speaker Pro Tem, was sentenced to 14 months in 
prison in January 1987 for charges stemming from the falsification 
of customer credit records for his mobile home business in South Carolina. 
WILLIAM A. BORDERS JR. The once-prominent Washington attorney and 
former president of the National Bar Association was convicted of 
conspiracy along with then-U.S. District Judge Alcee L. Hastings in 
a Miami racketeering case. While Hastings was acquitted, Borders was 
sentenced to a five-year prison term and disbarred. Borders was also 
held in contempt of court for refusing to testify during Hasting's 
criminal and Senate impeachment trials. JOHN BUSTAMANTE Bustamante, 
70, was a pillar of Cleveland's black community as chairman of First 
National Bank Association of Cleveland and publisher of the Call and 
Post newspaper. He pleaded guilty in 1993 to a federal charge of defrauding 
an insurance company and was placed on probation. He pleaded after 
a federal judge threw out his 1991 conviction on five felony fraud 
charges. HENRY CISNEROS Cisneros, 52, was housing secretary during 
Clinton's first term before moving to Los Angeles to run Univision, 
the nation's largest Spanish-language television network. In 1999, 
Cisneros pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor after a four-year, $9 million 
probe into charges he lied about payments to a former mistress. DONALD 
R. CLARK Clark, 60, was sentenced to life in prison in 1991 for his 
role in a $30 million high-grade marijuana ring. Clark was one of 
the leaders in a conspiracy to grow and sell ``Myakka gold,'' an especially 
potent marijuana grown on a 600-acre former sod and watermelon farm 
leased by Clark in Myakka City, near Sarasota, Fla. More than 25 people, 
including Clark's sons Duane and Gary, were indicted in the drug ring. 
ROGER CLINTON President Clinton's half brother pleaded guilty in a 
1984 case to a charge of conspiracy to distribute a single gram of 
cocaine, was sentenced to two years in prison, served more than a 
year, and testified in other trials. The prosecutor was Asa Hutchinson, 
who later was a U.S. House manager in President Clinton's impeachment. 
Bill Clinton told Hutchinson later that the drug prosecution was ``the 
best thing that ever happened'' to his half brother. JOHN DEUTCH Deutch, 
61, CIA director from May 1995 to December 1996, stored and processed 
hundreds of files of highly classified material on unprotected home 
computers that he and family members also used to connect to the Internet, 
according to an internal CIA investigation. The Defense Department's 
inspector general found similar conduct during Deutch's prior service 
at the Pentagon. Prosecutors offered Deutch a deal under which he 
would plead guilty to keeping government secrets on unsecured home 
computers and receive no prison time. WILLIAM FUGAZY SR. The one-time 
limousine mogul was a former confidant of New York City Mayor Rudolph 
Giuliani and ex-New York Gov. Mario Cuomo. In 1997, after going bankrupt, 
Fugazy pleaded guilty to shifting some of his remaining assets into 
another company controlled by his children to avoid paying creditors 
who claimed he owed them $75 million. He was sentenced to two years 
of probation for committing perjury. PATRICIA HEARST Hearst, 45, was 
a 19-year-old newspaper heiress who was kidnapped by radicals in 1974 
and convicted of joining them in a San Francisco bank heist. She claimed 
she was brainwashed by her Symbionese Liberation Army captors and 
forced to participate in the armed robbery. President Carter commuted 
her seven-year sentence after she had served 21 months. BILLY LANGSTON 
Langston, 46, a first-time offender, was sentenced to 30 years in 
prison in 1994 for conspiracy to manufacture PCP. His sentence became 
a symbol for groups opposed to mandatory federal sentencing standards. 
Arrested while transporting drug-making chemicals, a job for which 
he was paid $1,000, he said he never manufactured PCP, didn't purchase 
the chemicals and didn't believe he was at risk for arrest ``because 
you could get the chemicals over the counter.'' PETER MACDONALD MacDonald, 
72, former president of the Navajo Nation, had served over half of 
a 14-year sentence for his role in a July 1989 riot in Window Rock, 
Ariz., that killed two of his supporters. The melee followed five 
months of tension and other violence among members of the nation's 
largest tribe after MacDonald was suspended from office by the Navajo 
Tribal Council on suspicion he had accepted kickbacks from contractors 
and cronies. On July 20, 1989, a group of his supporters stormed tribal 
headquarters in Window Rock in an attempt to restore him to power. 
Tribal police opened fire, killing two MacDonald supporters. SUSAN 
MCDOUGAL McDougal, 46, was a partner of Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton 
in the Whitewater land development in northern Arkansas. She was convicted 
of misusing proceeds from a federally backed loan and was jailed 18 
months on a contempt of court citation for refusing to testify against 
the Clintons before a Whitewater grand jury. She was acquitted in 
a separate obstruction of justice trial. HOWARD LAWRENCE MECHANIC 
Mechanic fled after a federal judge sentenced him in 1972 to serve 
five years for throwing a cherry bomb during a war protest at Washington 
University in St. Louis. He changed his name to Gary Tredway and ran 
a motel-apartment complex and health-food business in Scottsdale, 
Ariz. He continued his social activism, attending City Council meetings 
and pushing for clean elections and environmental causes, and his 
secret was discovered when he ran for the Scottsdale City Council. 
SAMUEL LORING MORISON Morison, employed at the Naval Intelligence 
Support Center in Suitland, Md., from 1974 to 1984, was convicted 
of spying for leaking intelligence photographs in 1984 to Jane's Defence 
Weekly, a British military magazine. In a case that matched First 
Amendment issues against national security concerns, Morison was the 
first person convicted of espionage for furnishing classified data 
to a journalist. He served two years in jail. ROBERT W. PALMER Palmer, 
a Whitewater defendant, pleaded guilty to a felony count of conspiracy 
to file false appraisals for Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan of 
Little Rock, which was owned by James McDougal, a former business 
partner of President Clinton. He was sentenced to a year of home detention. 
CHARLES ``PUG'' RAVENEL Ravenel, 62, a former gubernatorial candidate, 
pleaded guilty in October 1995 to his role in the failure of the Citadel 
Federal Savings Bank, which prosecutors called one of the biggest 
bank frauds in the state's history. He was sentenced to 11 months 
in federal prison. MARC RICH The billionaire commodities trader was 
convicted in the early 1980s on 51 counts of conspiracy, tax evasion, 
racketeering and trading with the enemy. Before his trial, he fled 
to Switzerland to escape the charges. Switzerland has refused to extradite 
him. STEPHEN A. SMITH Smith, a University of Arkansas communications 
professor, pleaded guilty in a Whitewater case to a misdemeanor count 
of conspiring to misapply funds from a federally backed business loan 
of $65,000. He said that paying a $1,000 fine was better than spending 
$70,000 for lawyers to prove his innocence. CORY STRINGFELLOW Stringfellow, 
31, was sentenced to 188 months in federal prison in 1995 for conspiring 
to sell LSD and fleeing to England. Salt Lake Mayor Rocky Anderson 
and Utah's two senators lobbied for Stringfellow, arguing the offense 
was non-violent and happened in his youth. JOHN FIFE SYMINGTON III 
The former Republican governor of Arizona resigned after being convicted 
in 1997 of using false financial statements to obtain loans. An appeals 
court overturned his convictions and prosecutors were still pursuing 
the case against him. He still faces a civil case in U.S. Bankruptcy 
Court stemming from a $10 million loan to six union pension funds. 
CHRISTOPHER V. WADE Wade, a Whitewater real estate agent, admitted 
hiding assets in a bankruptcy case and pleaded guilty to bankruptcy 
fraud and submitting a false application to a bank, though the charges 
against him were not related to the Whitewater development. He served 
13 months in prison.