Andre Agassi thinks John McEnroe and the Davis Cup are made for each 
other. ``At some point you've got to stop talking about it and do 
it,'' Agassi said. ``So I would like to see him try. I think he would 
have a heck of a shot.'' There have been hints the 41-year-old McEnroe 
might come back for doubles on the U.S. team. Agassi said Sunday he 
has watched McEnroe playing doubles, and ``he still is one of the 
best on the court.'' Chris Woodruff, a likely team member, said Saturday 
he would not be surprised to find McEnroe in the lineup. McEnroe quit 
as Davis Cup captain in November, four months after eventual champion 
Spain defeated the United States 5-0 in the semifinals. His brother, 
Patrick, succeeded him. Asked about selecting his brother for the 
team, Patrick said: ``It's certainly something I'm not going to rule 
out.'' ___ FED DRAW: The defending champion United States, Spain, 
Belgium and the Czech Republic received byes to the quarterfinals 
of the 2001 Fed Cup. The competition _ the women's equivalent of the 
Davis Cup _ will be played over three weeks _ in April, July and November. 
The four semifinals from last year advance to the quarters. The other 
12 nations include regional qualifiers Argentina, Hungary and Japan. 
Completing the field are Slovakia, Russia, Germany, France, Switzerland, 
Croatia, Australia, Austria and Italy. The United States won the Fed 
Cup in 2000 for the second straight year. The team of Monica Seles, 
Lindsay Davenport, Jennifer Capriati and Lisa Raymond defeated Belgium 
in the semis and then swept Spain. The 2001 competition has yet to 
draw a major sponsor. ___ AUSSIE OPTION: Officials Down Under haven't 
given up hope of convincing Jelena Dokic to play for Australia in 
the April 28-29 Fed Cup opener against Austria. Dokic said on the 
eve of the Australian Open she wanted to be listed as a Yugoslavian 
from now on. Fed Cup coach Lesley Bowrey said she had spoken to Dokic 
and was sure the 17-year-old had not closed off the possibility of 
playing for Australia. International Tennis Federation rules dictate 
that a player swapping nationalities must sit out 32 months of international 
team tennis. Although playing as an individual at a tour event under 
the Yugoslavian flag was OK immediately under the ITF rules. Born 
in Belgrade, Dokic moved from Serbia to Australia with her family 
in 1994. She is upset over negative reports in the Australian media 
about her father. ___ DOUBLE VISION: When the tradition of wearing 
white clothes at Grand Slams ended, one supposed benefit was that 
it would be easier to distinguish players. Now things seem to be moving 
full circle, with rivals wearing the same clothing. Carlos Moya and 
Lleyton Hewitt were both wearing identical red shirts and blue shorts 
Saturday night. The following day, defending champion Lindsay Davenport 
and Kim Clijsters wore matching red shirts and white skirts. Moya 
was a fashion victim earlier in the week. He and first-round opponent 
Marcelo Rios wore identical white shirts and blue shorts for their 
match. ___ UP AND AT 'EM: After a third-round loss that spanned two 
days, Australia's Lleyton Hewitt was back at Melbourne Park first 
thing Sunday morning to support girlfriend Kim Clijsters. Hewitt, 
seeded No. 7 seed, lost in five sets to Carlos Moya in a match that 
started at 9:30 p.m. Saturday on center court at Melbourne Park and 
finished at 1:18 a.m. Sunday. Clijsters said she went to bed at 10 
p.m. the previous night and didn't see the result of Hewitt's match. 
The 17-year-old Belgian, seeded 15th, lost 6-4, 6-0 to No. 2 Lindsay 
Davenport in a fourth-round match. ___ MONEY MATTERS: Lindsay Davenport, 
the defending Australian Open champion, said any debate over prize 
money should take into account how much the tournaments make off the 
players. Prize money in WTA events has increased from $38 million 
five years ago to $50 million this year. The jump is due to large 
sponsorship contracts and TV agreements, the WTA says. It does not 
include payouts at the four Grand Slams, which are run separately. 
``It looks great when the winner gets lots of money,'' Davenport said. 
``But you also have to look on how much the tournament makes off us 
and the television deals and all the money that the players generate.'' 
Davenport said players are generally happy with the money on the tour, 
although Russian star Yevgeny Kafelnikov said earlier in the week 
that the players are not getting their fair share.