Vojislav Kostunica, whose shoe-leather campaign and dour honesty made 
him the choice of a nation fed up with Slobodan Milosevic, stood before 
Yugoslavs on Saturday as their new leader. Kostunica, a 56-year-old 
constitutional lawyer, won presidential elections Sept. 24 but has 
been put in office by a popular revolution. The scene on Saturday 
at the Sava Center _ a replacement for the federal Parliament building, 
burned last week in the revolt that made Milosevic concede the presidency 
_ was chaotic. Newly elected legislators who had gathered for the 
inauguration of Kostunica and their own swearing-in negotiated furiously 
about a future federal government. Supported by a loose coalition 
of 18 disparate and notoriously quarrelsome opposition parties, Kostunica 
now faces the daunting task of constructing a new government and institutionalizing 
the revolution while keeping to the legal order he cherishes. One 
of his first problems will be to guide an opposition that has never 
run anything larger than a city. But he must also work to maintain 
the very Yugoslav Federation over which he presides. He must deal 
with the problem of a restive Montenegro that has moved a long way 
toward independence and of a Kosovo that is run by the United Nations 
and whose largely Albanian population wants only independence. Kostunica 
says he will try to establish a unity government of experts on the 
federal level that could include members of other parties that had 
backed Milosevic, like the Montenegrin Socialist People's Party and 
even Milosevic's party itself. Talks on Saturday with the Montenegrin 
president, Milo Djukanovic, who boycotted the September elections 
and thus has no supporters in the federal Parliament, make Kostunica 
hopeful that he can support such a government. But it seemed that 
the Montenegrin Socialists would remain in coalition with the parties 
of Milosevic and his wife, which would give them a majority in Parliament. 
Compared with his internal problems, working out new relationships 
with the rest of Europe and the United States _ which have welcomed 
Milosevic's downfall with full-throated delight _ could be easy, despite 
questions over the extradition of Milosevic and other Serbs to The 
Hague, Netherlands, on war-crimes charges. The West is eager to help 
Serbia with financial and other aid and has promised to begin lifting 
some international sanctions against Yugoslavia _ though not the most 
damaging ones _ as early as Monday. As the federal legislators gathered 
here Saturday morning, there were reports by witnesses that Milosevic's 
son, Marko Milosevic, had flown on a Yugoslav Airlines flight to Moscow, 
YU-132, with his wife, Milica, and his son, Marko. Ida Kovacevic, 
a flight attendant on the plane, said in an interview after the flight 
returned here: ``Marko came in as an ordinary passenger. He acted 
normally, and we acted normally. There was no special treatment.'' 
She confirmed that his wife and son were also aboard. Belgraders noted 
gleefully on Saturday that in his resignation speech Friday night, 
Milosevic said he wanted ``to spend more time with my family, especially 
my grandson, Marko.'' ``He should go join them soon,'' said Vesna 
Mitic, standing on Saturday staring at the burned-out Parliament building 
where the new legislature can no longer meet. But Meri Locani said: 
``I wouldn't even let him go to Russia. Why did he let all this happen? 
If people have a chance, they would hang him and his wife here in 
the square.'' When she heard Milosevic's resignation speech, Locani 
said, ``I was so happy, as happy as I've ever been.'' She wiped her 
eyes. She has a paraplegic daughter, Savina, 27, she said. ``I'd be 
the happiest person in the world if she could walk. But in the last 
few days I was so happy. It was almost as if she were walking.'' But 
Milosevic remains in Serbia with stated ambitions to continue in politics 
as the leader of his Socialist Party, which makes many uneasy. Aleksandar 
Tijanic, Milosevic's former spokesman who became a critic of the rule, 
said Saturday, ``As long as Milosevic remains on the Serbian political 
scene and shows a desire to be politically active, he represents a 
threat.'' Milosevic ``represents the political interests'' of all 
those not in the democratic opposition, Tijanic said in an interview. 
But more important, ``he's also the supreme commander of the net of 
paramilitaries, parapolice and parafinancial interests'' that have 
thrived with and supported him and his wife, Mirjana Markovic. ``Milosevic 
can pull some strings,'' Tijanic said. ``These cannot bring down the 
new government, but can keep it in constant instability and keep the 
public of Serbia in a constant state of tension.'' One of Kostunica's 
main challenges, Tijanic said, is to enforce his authority over the 
opposition coalition, some of whose leaders want a revolutionary bypassing 
of the law. ``He should break down party interests in the coalition, 
because he won as the candidate of Serbian political opinion, and 
not as their candidate,'' he said. The more powerful Yugoslavian Parliament, 
which has supported Milosevic and whose members are not scheduled 
to face election until next year, is to meet on Monday. Maneuvering 
there with two parties that have been sometime allies of Milosevic 
could alter the face of the Yugoslavian government, but exactly who 
will now control that legislature remains uncertain. On Monday, the 
Yugoslavian Parliament will recognize Kostunica and may vote to fire 
the Yugoslavian interior minister, Vlajko Stojiljkovic, a Milosevic 
ally. The Parliament may also abolish the draconian information law 
passed in October 1998. But Kostunica and his allies must also begin 
to control the Yugoslavian ministries that are now beholden to Milosevic 
and his coalition. The opposition is moving ``minister by minister, 
institution by institution,'' trying to establish cooperation, a party 
leader said. New details emerged Saturday of Milosevic's meeting on 
Friday with Kostunica, after Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov of Russia 
met the two men and Milosevic decided to concede defeat in the elections. 
On Friday evening, Kostunica received the Yugoslav military chief 
of staff, Gen. Nebojsa Pavkovic, at presidential offices in the Palace 
of Federations in New Belgrade. Pavkovic promised him that the army 
would not intervene and congratulated him on his election victory, 
which makes Kostunica chairman of the country's Supreme Defense Council. 
Pavkovic then offered to show Kostunica the military command post, 
in a suburban Belgrade bunker, said Stevan Niksic, the editor of the 
weekly NIN. Once there, the general asked if Kostunica would like 
to meet Milosevic. The two men talked alone for an hour, Kostunica 
said on television on Friday night. The Greek and Norwegian foreign 
ministers flew to Belgrade on Saturday for the hastily arranged inauguration 
ceremony. The Greek minister, George Papandreou, and his government 
have tried to be intermediaries between Yugoslavia and Europe, and 
between Kostunica and the Milosevic government. Papandreou said the 
end of Milosevic's rule ushers in ``a new era in relations between 
Yugoslavia and Europe.''