For the last eight years, whenever Bill Clinton wanted to go somewhere 
_ even out for a cup of coffee _ it turned into a production of armored 
limousines, vans, ambulances, helicopters, national security advisers, 
press aides and squads of Secret Service agents carrying submachine 
guns. On Sunday morning, when the former president of the United States 
decided to leave his new white house in the snow-covered suburbs of 
New York to pick up a cup of coffee for his wife and an egg salad 
sandwich for himself, the trappings of his short trip suggested how 
much his position in life has changed. He arrived at Lange's Little 
Store, across the street from a Grand Union supermarket, in a motorcade 
of precisely two cars. There was not a helicopter or machine gun in 
sight. ``It must be a slow news day in New York if you have to cover 
me,'' Clinton declared, chuckling at the sight of the reporters _ 
a fairly small bunch, if truth be told, compared with the old White 
House crowd _ who had come out to chronicle his first day as a private 
citizen. The former president, in a chatty mood and presumably enjoying 
the free time he now has on his hands, said he and Sen. Hillary Rodham 
Clinton had spent the morning unpacking books and boxes. Clinton said 
he had not read the Sunday newspapers, which were filled with accounts 
of the inauguration of his successor, President Bush, or watched the 
Sunday morning talk shows, though he insisted that he never watched 
those anyway. When one of his new neighbors asked whether he had slept 
after what turned out to be a rather eventful last week in office, 
Clinton responded, ``Like a rock.'' ``So far, it's been wonderful,'' 
he said, offering an early report on life outside the White House. 
Not that he was able to quite leave his White House years behind him. 
Clinton defended his last-day-in-office granting of 140 pardons and 
said that he and his advisers were studying the way the pardon process 
was handled, with the intention of presenting a memo of recommendations 
to Bush on how to handle future applications for pardons. ``As long 
as we live in a world where you never vote again or have full citizenship 
restored to you unless you get a pardon, then the word `pardon' is 
somehow almost a misnomer,'' Clinton said. ``You're not saying these 
people didn't commit an offense. You're saying they paid, they paid 
in full, and they've been out long enough after their sentence to 
show they are good citizens.'' At Lange's, Clinton's arrival on this 
cold morning set off a frenzy of, well, presidential proportions. 
Local residents lined up and clamored to shake his hand, or pose for 
pictures, or get an autograph. (When someone sought to get Clinton 
to sign a $10 bill, he shook his head, saying, ``No money.'') Grabbing 
his hand, Sandy Nuffer said, ``I wish you could still be our president!'' 
Clinton responded: ``It was an honor to serve. Thank you.'' He did 
not respond when someone shouted, ``Hillary in four years?'' Some 
people were not quite as taken by the celebrity in their midst. Kathleen 
McAvoy of Mahopac pressed a piece of paper and a pen into the hand 
of her daughter, saying, ``Don't you want to have a president's signature?'' 
Her daughter, Siobhan, 11, responded firmly, ``He is not a president.'' 
Her mother replied, ``He was a president.'' Siobhan got her autograph. 
Hillary Clinton stayed at home during her husband's outing. But a 
few moments before the former president arrived, Chelsea Clinton, 
20, slipped into the deli with no retinue or fanfare. She stood almost 
unnoticed at the deli counter, until people standing around realized, 
one by one, who she was. Without exception, they stopped and stared. 
``This is history,'' Jay Schlesinger, a psychologist, whispered urgently 
to his wife. Chelsea Clinton then greeted people in the store, and 
used the honorific ``Mr.'' to address even reporters who had covered 
her parents. When one suggested that that level of formality was not 
necessary, the former president's daughter demurred. ``I may live 
in New York, but I'm still from the South,'' she said. For his part, 
Clinton seemed to be enjoying himself as much as he always did, stretching 
out the reception for nearly 20 minutes. ``Like your red shoes!'' 
he told one girl. And when one more person expressed regrets that 
his years in Washington were over, he smiled appreciatively and said: 
``No one gets to stay forever. And it's better to leave when someone 
wants you.'' With that, William Jefferson Clinton dug into a brown 
paper bag to retrieve his egg salad sandwich, climbed back in his 
two-car motorcade, and headed to the place that he is now calling 
home.