Rescuers were frantically searching Monday for a construction worker 
trapped nine days under an earthquake-triggered mudslide after a dog 
smelled life under the mountain of dirt. Luis Alberto Alas, 39, was 
building a balcony on a luxury home in the Santa Tecla neighborhood 
of Las Colinas on Jan. 13 when a 7.6-magnitude earthquake buried the 
area under a mountain of dirt, killing more than 700 people. Alas' 
wife, Mercedes, had stood vigil over the spot where she believed her 
husband might be trapped since the quake, but searchers going over 
the area had found no trace of him. The search began anew late Sunday 
when Jimmy, a German Shepherd donated by the French government, indicated 
he smelled something under the ground where Mercedes Alas had told 
rescue crews to dig. ``We heard noises and it sounded like those noises 
could belong to a person,'' said Ivon Delsaut, a French volunteer 
involved in the new search. ``It felt as if somebody was punching 
the ground below us,'' added Salvadoran Red Cross rescuer Jesus Balcaceres. 
Crews dug all night Sunday _ but remained unsure if anyone was alive 
under the rubble. ``I will never lose hope that he is under there 
alive,'' Mercedes Alas said. ``This was a construction site where 
there were many large objects that could protect my husband from the 
dirt.'' The last person pulled alive from the debris was Sergio Moreno. 
The 22-year-old keyboard player was freed a day after the earthquake 
after spending 31 hours trapped in the bathroom of his Las Colinas 
home. He died two days later. As rescuers again dug into what was 
left of Las Colinas, those living in a nearby refugee camp wondered 
how they would put the pieces of their lives back together. ``We will 
stay here until they tell us it's time to go, then we will move to 
another camp,'' said Jose Luis Solorzano, 40, who worked as a cab 
driver until the quake leveled his three-room shack and flattened 
his taxi. ``It is very crowded here and it gets cold at night. But 
living on the street there are no donated clothes or tents and life 
is even more miserable.'' The quake's death toll stands at 710. The 
quake destroyed 141,000 Salvadoran homes and left approximately 750,000 
people homeless. Three small aftershocks were recorded in El Salvador 
on Sunday, bringing the total number since last Saturday's quake to 
1,927. No injuries or damage were reported in Sunday's aftershocks.