now to the texas prison break story, seven armed and dangerous inmates 
who have been at large since mid-december. four were captured today 
south of denver, another killed himself and two remain at large. nbc's 
jim cummins joins us tonight from texas on the arrests and the manhunt 
still going on. tom, it was a swift moment in this long manhunt. it 
ended with tear gas and gunfire. today, police s.w.a.t. teams swarm 
into woodland park, colorado, in the rocky mountain foothills about 
50 miles south of denver after a telephone tip from a woman who believes 
she saw one of the texas 7. the fbi, the u.s. marshall's service was 
in contact with us, with the suspicions that this was in this area. 
the police arrive at 10:30 in the mobile home park where jeff danforth 
lives. three guys with army fatigues got out and with m-16 machine 
guns and told me i need to get back inside my trailer. soon police 
arrest george rivas, the alleged ring leader of the texas 7, along 
with joseph garcia and michael rodriquez. there are reports that two 
others, randy halprin and larry harper, are also in the trailer park 
surrounded by police. then authorities say halprin surrenders leaving 
harper alone. authorities fire tear gas into an area where they believe 
he is holed up in a mobile home. a short time later, they say, he 
commits suicide. the county sheriff here describes the last minutes 
of the standoff with harper. he, for a period of time, was observing 
us through the window. and then when we heard the gunshot, we saw 
no more movement in the motor home. at first, no word on the whereabouts 
of the other two fugitive, patrick murphy and donald newbury. had 
we not had information from the community that said we think that 
at least three, if not five, of these suspects from texas are here 
in teller county, we never would have been here. this manhunt began 
december 13th when the seven inmate, two killers, two armed robbers, 
a child beater, serial rapist and a burglar, break out of the connolly 
unit prison in south texas. december 15th police say they, rivas and 
newbury, hit this radio shack near houston and steal police radio 
scanners christmas eve. all of the escapees are suspected of robbing 
this sporting goods store in irving texas of $70,000 and 25 guns and 
brutally killing police officer aubrey hawkins during their getaway. 
for the next 28 days police get thousands of tips and chase down dozens 
of possible sightings from utah to mississippi to new york city. but 
no capture, despite a $500,000 reward offer and one of the biggest 
police manhunts in recent u.s. history -- until today. this has been 
a moolgd of cooperation. it was america's most wanted. it was broadcast 
saturday night that i think we could say it directly led to this identification. 
the fbi says the four suspects in custody are being cooperative, but 
they warn the public that two very dangerous criminals are still at 
large. tonight texas authorities are on the lookout for a 1980s ford 
van two tone. jim comens in texas.