which brings us to nbc news "in depth" tonight and one of the ex-president's 
last official acts. pardons for 140 people, including one very controversial 
man who has been on the run from the law for almost two decades and 
whose ex-wife is a major contributor to the democratic party and the 
clintons. our "in depth" report from nbc's pete williams. on the very 
day the white house hands out the summary of president clinton's very 
last official pardons, one man on that list is also on another, a 
u.s. government internet site for international fugitives. he's marc 
rich, on the lam for 17 years, now a multimillionaire living in switzerland, 
enjoying the skiing and avoiding u.s. charges of tax evasion and trading 
with the enemy. his pardon, with barely two hours left in the clinton 
presidency, is sparking outrage from people familiar with the case, 
including new york mayor rudolph giuliani, who brought the charges 
against rich in 1983. he ran away. it was, at the time, the largest 
tax evasion case in the history of the united states. legal experts 
say nearly all presidential pardons go to people who have served time 
for their crimes. that's true for most of the 456 pardons during the 
clinton administration, an eight-year total only slightly higher than 
the number granted by ronald reagan, the last two-term president. 
but a former prosecutor on the case says rich, as a fugitive, is especially 
undeserving. the principle of giving a pardon to somebody who is basically 
stuck their tongue out at the system and such an important case as 
this one was because it drew so much attention, even now it is drawing 
attention, i just don't understand it. rich was accused of a scam 
to avoid oil price controls and evade nearly $50 million in federal 
taxes. and prosecutors said he illegally bought oil from iran while 
it was under a u.s. trade embargo for holding americans there hostage. 
his lawyers say it wasn't rich that did the trading, it was his swiss-based 
company, not subject to u.s. law. an argument he himself made to nbc 
news in 1993. was there a crime, and i'm saying i don't think so. 
on sunday, mr. clinton said the case for pardoning rich was pleaded 
personally by jack quinn, a former counsel in the clinton white house. 
i spent a lot of personal time talking -- because it's an unusual 
case, but quinn made a strong case and i was convince head was right 
on the merits. opponents of the pardon say they think contributions 
by rich's ex-wife, denise, who has given nearly $1 million to democratic 
causes during the clinton era, were also a factor. though rich's lawyers 
deny that. lawyers involved in the case today say clinton never contacted 
the justice department for its views on pardoning rich. that makes 
this pardon, says a former justice department lawyer, a big departure 
from the usual practice. for probably about 135 years the president 
has felt that it serves him best to have a filter and a recommendation 
from the attorney general. but now, with a presidential pardon, marc 
rich is free to come back to the u.s. no longer facing trial in one 
of the biggest tax fraud cases ever. pete williams, nbc news, washington. 
this footnote, in addition to those 140 pardons, president clinton 
also commuted the sentences of 36 people on his last day in office.