Briskly adapting to the fall of Slobodan Milosevic, who was a close 
diplomatic ally, President Jiang Zemin Saturday sent ``heartfelt congratulations'' 
to the newly elected president of Yugoslavia. In his message to Vojislav 
Kostunica, whose election was certified this week only after a popular 
uprising forced Milosevic to relinquish power, Jiang wished the new 
president ``a smooth job in his new lofty position and remarkable 
achievements in his endeavors towards the stability and prosperity 
of Yugoslavia,'' according to a report by the New China News Agency. 
China was one of Milosevic's staunchest supporters during last year's 
NATO campaign against Yugoslavia over Kosovo, where Milosevic's security 
forces were killing and repressing the majority Albanian population. 
China's vehement opposition to the NATO military action _ portrayed 
here as an imperialistic expansion of American ``hegemony'' using 
human rights as a pretext _ arose in part from China's own fear that 
foreign powers might some day support ethnic insurrections in Tibet 
or in the Muslim region of Xinjiang. Throughout the Kosovo bombing 
campaign, China's official media virtually ignored reports of ``ethnic 
cleansing'' and other Serbian atrocities in Kosovo and described Milosevic 
and his government as heroic defenders of the sacred principle of 
national sovereignty. In June 1999, when the International Criminal 
Tribunal in the Hague indicted Milosevic for war crimes for promoting 
ethnic cleansing, the Chinese government described the indictment 
as an American-led ``political scheme.'' In June this year, China's 
parliament leader, Li Peng, visited Belgrade for three days, where 
Milosevic presented him with Yugoslavia's highest medal, the Great 
Star. But in the aftermath of the Kosovo war, Milosevic's international 
indictment and the rise of his domestic opponents, Li and other Chinese 
officials have generally stressed the common interests linking China 
and Yugoslavia rather than singling out Milosevic for praise. Saturday, 
a foreign ministry spokesman, Sun Yuxi, said that ``China respects 
the choice of the Yugoslavian people,'' adding that ``we believe that 
the change of situation in Yugoslavia will not affect the healthy 
development of China-Yugoslavia relations.'' The political turn in 
Belgrade has caused lively traffic on China's Internet bulletin boards, 
which last year were filled with anti-American venom. This time, many 
anonymous writers have made pointed comments about the success of 
democracy in Yugoslavia, with one saying, for example, ``Yugoslavs 
win democracy, how about us?'' and another saying, ``Milosevic's fall 
is making some people here nervous.''