The pardon of Marc Rich, the commodities trader who has been a fugitive 
for almost two decades, came as a surprise to federal prosecutors 
when President Clinton granted it as one of his final acts on Saturday. 
Lawyers for Rich headed off opposition to the pardon by waiting until 
December to ask for one and by appealing directly to Clinton. The 
last-minute pardon of Rich and his former partner, Pincus Green, was 
not warmly received by officials who had been involved in prosecuting 
Rich, who fled to Switzerland in 1983 after he was charged with 51 
counts of conspiracy, tax evasion, racketeering and trading with the 
enemy. Mary Jo White, the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, said Monday: 
``We were totally unaware that pardons for Marc Rich and Pincus Green 
were under consideration. The Department of Justice was also bypassed 
in a number of pardon applications for defendants from this district.'' 
The Justice Department is usually given the chance to review applications 
for pardons, a department spokeswoman said, but the president has 
absolute authority to grant them. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, a former 
federal prosecutor, has been outspoken in his criticism of the pardon 
of Rich, who was accused of evading $48 million in taxes and violating 
U.S. sanctions by trading oil with Iran. Monday, Giuliani called on 
Congress to review the decision, questioning the connection to the 
``enormous amounts of money'' Rich's family members raised for the 
president. Rich's former wife, Denise Rich, has been an active fund-raiser 
for Clinton and the Democratic Party. She could not be reached for 
comment Monday, but a spokesman, Bobby Zarem, said that she, too, 
had been surprised by the pardon. ``She was so taken aback by this, 
more or as much as anyone else,'' Zarem said. Bob Fink, a lawyer in 
Manhattan who helped prepare Rich's pardon application, said that 
despite being divorced, Ms. Rich had long held that the charges against 
her former husband were not justified. Fink and Jack Quinn, a former 
White House counsel in the Clinton administration, made that argument 
in the application they filed with the White House in December. They 
argued that there was no basis for criminal charges against Rich and 
that the case should have been resolved with regulators and did not 
merit the involvement of the Justice Department, Fink said. ``I think 
we made a good case that this was a case that shouldn't have been 
brought in the first place,'' Fink said. He said the prosecution of 
Rich resulted from ``some overzealousness'' on the part of the prosecutors 
and that all similar cases, including those that involved people who 
participated in trades with Rich, were treated as civil matters and 
handled by securities regulators. ``The situation was we were really 
the only ones where this was criminalized,'' Fink said. Fink said 
that ``lots of people'' had written letters in support of a pardon 
for Rich but he declined to name them. He said that Quinn, having 
worked in the White House, was barred from lobbying the White House 
but that temporary prohibition did not apply to representing clients 
in criminal or civil proceedings.