Acting on a tip, authorities on Monday captured four of the seven 
convicts who broke out of a Texas prison nearly six weeks ago and 
allegedly gunned down a policeman on Christmas Eve. A fifth inmate 
killed himself inside a motor home that had been surrounded by authorities 
in this foothills community about 50 miles southwest of Denver. The 
whereabouts of the two other inmates were unknown. Authorities said 
they may have been in Woodland Park as recently as Sunday and may 
have left to get more money. ``The story is by no means over,'' said 
Mark Mershon, the top FBI official in Colorado. ``We have two suspects 
that are still on the loose.'' Authorities said surveillance of the 
trailer park began at 2 a.m. Monday, and they didn't believe the two 
inmates on the run slipped past officers. They aren't sure when the 
men left. The heavily armed inmates _ including murderers, rapists 
and armed robbers _ had puzzled and alarmed authorities by remaining 
together after bluffing their way out of prison Dec. 13. The slaying 
of the Dallas-area officer 11 days later only increased fears that 
the inmates might want to go out in a blaze of gunfire. Among those 
arrested was George Rivas, 30, the suspected ringleader who was serving 
a life sentence for robbery and kidnapping. Investigators have portrayed 
Rivas as fearless and shrewd with a powerful hold over the others, 
but authorities said he expressed remorse as he admitted to the slaying 
of the policeman. ``He stated that he had a change of heart, change 
of life and he wanted this to end,'' said State Patrol Trooper Eric 
Zachareas, who was at the convenience store where Rivas and two others 
were arrested. Rivas had dyed his hair blonde and another inmate had 
dyed his hair orange in an apparent attempt to avoid scrutiny, Zachareas 
said. He also said some of the fugitives may have been at a Colorado 
Springs bar late Saturday. ``Apparently, they were out partying,'' 
he said. The convicts arrived in the area on Jan. 1, Teller County 
Sheriff Frank Fehn said. He offered no other details of their activities, 
nor how they covered the more than 800 miles from the prison in south 
Texas. Authorities said a weekend tip prompted by the show ``America's 
Most Wanted'' led to the capture. The show had featured the convicts 
four times since the escape, including the last three Saturday nights. 
Undersheriff Kevin Dougherty said authorities were told about the 
fugitives by the manager of the Coachlight, a combination motel and 
RV park where the motor home was located. The park, tucked away amid 
pine trees, was put under surveillance at 2 a.m. Monday, authorities 
said. Rivas and two others were arrested not at the RV park but as 
they pulled up for gasoline at a convenience store near Woodland Park. 
The Texas Department of Criminal Justice said Rivas was captured with 
inmates Michael Rodriguez and Joseph Garcia. Authorities said inmate 
Larry Harper killed himself inside the motor home sometime after another 
convict, Randy Halprin, walked outside. Harper had wanted to speak 
to his father and authorities arranged for him to do so by cellphone, 
Fehn said. He was dead from a gunshot wound to the chest by the time 
the arrangements were made. Authorities said Monday night that Halprin 
had an old wound that he may have sustained during the robbery in 
Irving. Authorities found 15 handguns inside the motor home and another 
gun in the Jeep, Zachareas said. Still missing were Patrick Murphy 
Jr., convicted of rape, and Donald Newbury, imprisoned for armed robbery. 
Authorities said two fugitives may be seeking more money. Zachareas 
said he didn't know whether that meant they planned a robbery, and 
Fehn said authorities had ``no idea'' where the pair might be. ``It's 
very scary,'' said Kristie Allen, 27, a hairstylist at Hair Studio 
West in Woodland Park, who listened to news of the captures on a shop 
radio. ``No one wants to go outside.'' The seven inmates followed 
a cunning plan to overpower 13 prison employees during their escape 
from the maximum-security Connally Unit in Kenedy, southeast of San 
Antonio. They stole a cache of weapons and drove away unchallenged 
in a prison pickup. According to authorities, the inmates robbed an 
Irving sporting goods store and gunned down Officer Aubrey Hawkins 
when he showed up. He was shot 11 times and his body was run over 
by a vehicle. The thieves fled with guns, clothing and $70,000 in 
cash and checks. A $500,000 reward was offered for information leading 
to the arrest and conviction of Hawkins' killer. After the convicts 
were captured, his mother, Jayne Hawkins, said: ``I want them to see 
me ... They will look at me and I want to see what they look like 
when they look at the mother of a child who is gone.'' The escape 
was the largest from a Texas state prison in modern history. Before 
last month, Texas had recaptured all but one of the 143 inmates who 
escaped from its state prisons in the past 10 years. A scathing state 
review blamed prison employees for the escape; a warden has since 
been demoted and other employees disciplined. The parents of Halprin, 
the youngest escaped convict at 23, were grateful when they learned 
of his capture, said Bill Waybourn, a family friend and chief of police 
in the Fort Worth suburb where Halprin grew up. ``They're obviously 
so relieved that no other police officers or innocent people were 
hurt, and extremely relieved that this thing looks like it's going 
to wind down fairly peaceful _ answered prayers, to be exact,'' he 
said. ___ On the Net: Texas Department of Criminal Justice: www.tdcj.state.tx.us 
Irving Police Department: www.irvingpd.com