Patrick Rafter played commanding tennis before his home fans Tuesday, 
winning 12 of the last 13 games to beat Dominik Hrbaty in four sets 
and reach the Australian Open semifinals. The Aussie rebounded from 
a 4-1 deficit in the third set, then swept the next one to win 6-2, 
6-7 (4), 7-5, 6-0 and set up a showdown with defending champion Andre 
Agassi. ``This is what it feels like, huh?'' said Rafter, who has 
won two U.S. Opens and was runner-up last year at Wimbledon but never 
had done better at the Australian than the fourth round in 1995. ``It's 
been a long time. It feels very satisfying being at home doing it.'' 
Agassi used his full arsenal to beat Todd Martin 7-5, 6-3, 6-4. Martin 
already had knocked out Pete Sampras, preventing a rematch of last 
year's semifinal in which Agassi rallied past Sampras in five sets. 
Rafter is the first Australian to go this far in his home country's 
Grand Slam tournament since Mark Woodforde reached the semifinals 
in 1996. He displayed crafty serving and acrobatic volleying. He also 
was helped by Hrbaty. The No. 14 seeded player double-faulted twice 
when he was broken in the third set's seventh game and once more when 
he was broken again in the 11th. On the women's side, No. 12 Jennifer 
Capriati rallied from a 4-2 deficit in the second set and reached 
the Australian semifinals for the second straight year with a 5-7, 
6-4, 6-3 victory over four-time Australian Open champion Monica Seles. 
In a rematch of one of last year's semifinals, she faces defending 
champion Lindsay Davenport, who beat No. 8 Anna Kournikova 6-4, 6-2. 
Kournikova, in a Grand Slam quarterfinal for the first time since 
reaching the semifinals at Wimbledon in 1997, had some chances but 
made too many errors. Davenport said Kournikova hits very hard and 
flat, and ``doesn't have a huge margin for error. Sometimes you get 
a lot of free points.'' Davenport, seeded second, was called for foot 
faults several times. ``I'll have to work on that,'' she said. ``It 
didn't hurt me tonight.'' Rafter was caught off guard in the second 
set when Hrbaty, who earlier beat U.S. Open champion Marat Safin, 
suddenly switched to a serve-and-volley attack. ``I got a little bit 
frustrated,'' Rafter said. ``He got his momentum going. I knew if 
I could hang in there and break him my serve would hold up.'' Agassi's 
best moment came on match point. Martin hit a good angled volley. 
Agassi chased it down, blasted a shot that Martin could only block 
back, and then lobbed over him. Agassi interrupted his match briefly 
to catch a bug near the baseline and throw it off court. Martin, trailing 
30-40 and 1-2 in the final set, waited out the distraction and then 
served an ace. He then held serve and, three games later, broke Agassi 
for a 4-3 lead. But Agassi broke right back and went on to win. ``I 
put on a good front,'' Agassi said of his mercy toward the bug. Agassi's 
Australian Open triumph last year ended a run of four Grand Slam tournaments 
in which he also won the French and U.S. Opens and was runner-up at 
Wimbledon. ``There's no saying it can't be done,'' he said of winning 
all four in a year. ``But I think we're a lot closer to seeing Mark 
McGwire's home run record being beat than we are to seeing someone 
win four Grand Slams in the same year in the men's game.'' Martin 
said the Sampras he beat _ ending a 13-match losing streak against 
him _ was out of practice, but ``Andre is very much in form. ... Andre 
thrives on confidence, and he's got plenty of it.'' ``I was beaten 
today,'' Martin said. ``I certainly didn't lose. I didn't play nearly 
as well as I had hoped. Most of that is due to the way Andre played.'' 
Agassi improved his record against Martin to 13-5. Nobody ever has 
beaten both Sampras and Agassi at a Grand Slam tournament. Capriati's 
victory made her a Grand Slam tournament semifinalist for only the 
second time since 1991, when she was 15. ``It's one of the best matches 
I've played,'' said the 24-year-old Capriati. ``It kind of reminded 
me of the old days.'' She lost the first set after saving seven points 
in a final game with 22 points and eight deuces, and fell behind in 
the second. After a double fault gave Seles a 4-2 lead, Capriati hurled 
her racket to the court, drawing a warning from the umpire. Then she 
won eight games in a row. ``I just changed making so many errors and 
kept the ball in the court more. She started missing. Before I knew 
it, I won that second set,'' Capriati said. It was Seles' second loss 
in 39 matches at Australian Opens. She won the title in 1991-93 and 
1996, and her only other loss was to Martina Hingis in the 1999 semifinals. 
In remaining quarterfinals Wednesday, top-seeded Hingis plays No. 
6 Serena Williams, and No. 3 Venus Williams meets No. 10 Amanda Coetzer. 
On the men's side, 1999 champion and 2000 runner-up Yevgeny Kafelnikov 
plays No. 15 Arnaud Clement, and No. 16 Sebastien Grosjean meets Carlos 
Moya, who is unseeded but a former No. 1. After Grosjean beat No. 
4 Magnus Norman on Monday night, all four top men's seeds were gone 
before the quarterfinals for only the third time in a Grand Slam tournament 
since the Open era began in 1968. No. 1 Gustavo Kuerten, No. 2 Safin 
and No. 3 Sampras lost earlier.