Andre Agassi loves to make opponents work. Patrick Rafter makes hard 
work pay off in his acrobatic attacking. The two are headed for a 
semifinal meeting at the Australian Open after Agassi beat Todd Martin 
7-5, 6-3, 6-4 and Rafter rebounded from 1-4 in the third set to beat 
Dominik Hrbaty 6-2, 6-7 (4), 7-5, 6-0 Tuesday. Agassi is the defending 
champion and this time doesn't have Pete Sampras to worry about. Martin 
knocked Sampras out in fourth round, after losing to him 13 times 
in a row. Last year, Agassi's come-from-behind, five-set victory over 
Sampras was the supreme showdown of the Australian Open. Agassi also 
has a 7-4 record against Rafter. But Rafter won their last meeting 
in the Wimbledon semifinals last year, has won two U.S. Opens and 
is a heavy local favorite, the first Australian since Mark Woodforde 
in 1996 to reach the semifinals of the home country's Grand Slam tournament. 
``This is what it feels like, huh?'' said Rafter, who never had done 
better at the Australian than the fourth round in 1995. ``It's been 
a long time. It feels very satisfying being at home doing it.'' The 
crowd helps, he said. ``You don't get this quite anywhere else, for 
me at least,'' he added. In winning 12 of the last 13 games, he also 
was helped by Hrbaty's collapse. The No. 14 seed double-faulted twice 
as he was broken in the third set's seventh game and again when he 
was broken in the 11th. He put in only 24 percent of his first serves 
in the final set. On the women's side, 12th-seeded Jennifer Capriati 
rallied from 2-4 in the second set and reached the semifinals here 
for the second straight year with a 5-7, 6-4, 6-3 victory over four-time 
champion Monica Seles. In a rematch of one of last year's semifinals, 
she faces defending champion Lindsay Davenport, who beat No. 8 Anna 
Kournikova 6-4, 6-2. Kournikova, in a Grand Slam quarterfinal for 
the first time since reaching the semifinals at Wimbledon in 1997, 
had some chances but made too many errors. Davenport, seeded second, 
said Kournikova hits very hard and flat, and ``doesn't have a huge 
margin for error. Sometimes you get a lot of free points.'' Rafter 
was caught off guard in the second set when Hrbaty, conqueror of U.S. 
Open champion and second-seed Marat Safin, suddenly switched to a 
serve-and-volley attack. ``I got a little bit frustrated. He got his 
momentum going. I knew if I could hang in there and break him my serve 
would hold up,'' Rafter said. Rafter showed his athletic style on 
a number of points, lunging to defend and then recovering to attack. 
Agassi's best demonstration came on match point. Martin hit a good 
angle volley. Agassi chased it down, blasted a shot that Martin could 
only block back, then lobbed over him. Agassi interrupted his match 
briefly to catch a bug near the baseline and throw it off court. Martin, 
trailing 30-40 and 1-2 in the final set, waited out the distraction 
and served an ace. He then held serve and, three games later, broke 
Agassi for a 4-3 lead. But Agassi broke right back and went on to 
win. ``I put on a good front,'' Agassi said of his mercy toward the 
bug. His tennis, meanwhile, ``feels pretty good. I've gotten better 
as the tournament has gone on,'' the No. 6 seed said. Agassi's Australian 
Open triumph last year ended a run of four Grand Slam tournaments 
where he also won the French and U.S. Opens and was runner-up at Wimbledon. 
Winning all four in a year ``would be great,'' he said. ``There's 
no saying it can't be done, but I think we're a lot closer to seeing 
Mark McGwire's home run record being beat than we are to seeing someone 
win four Grand Slams in the same year in the men's game.'' Martin 
said the Sampras that he beat was out of practice, but ``Andre is 
very much in form. ... Andre thrives on confidence, and he's got plenty 
of it.'' ``I was beaten today,'' Martin said. ``I certainly didn't 
lose. I didn't play nearly as well as I had hoped. Most of that is 
due to the way Andre played.'' Agassi improved his record against 
Martin to 13-5. Nobody ever has beaten both Sampras and Agassi at 
a Grand Slam tournament. Looking ahead to Rafter's serve-and-volley 
style, Agassi said, ``You know he's going to do it, and he still is 
athlete enough to pull it off, which is incredible.'' Rafter said 
that to beat Agassi, ``I'm going to have to serve better _ it's that 
simple _ and probably be a little more inventive from the baseline.'' 
Capriati's victory made her a Grand Slam semifinalist for only the 
second time since 1991, when she was 15. ``It's one of the best matches 
I've played,'' said Capriati, now 24. ``It kind of reminded me of 
the old days.'' She lost the first set after saving seven points in 
a final game with 22 points and eight deuces, and fell behind in the 
second. After a double fault gave Seles a 4-2 lead, Capriati hurled 
her racket to the court, drawing a warning from the umpire. She won 
the next eight games.