In the mid-1990s, when the United States was trying to end the war 
in Bosnia and then enforce the peace, Washington's contacts with Slobodan 
Milosevic were frequent, volatile and very much in person. Often, 
after a shouting match over policy with American diplomats in his 
palace in Belgrade, Milosevic would signal a servant to open the doors 
to a large dining room, where a meal of several courses awaited and 
where the conversation could be, according to participants, jocular 
and cordial. Relations with Milosevic at that period were never warm, 
but were at the height of a roller-coaster ride that coursed over 
a decade from a lack of attention during a Bush presidency distracted 
first by the fall of Communism elsewhere, and then by fighting Saddam 
Hussein, to outright war last year under President Clinton. Now, finally, 
Washington is celebrating the downfall of a man who for years delighted 
in defying, befuddling and belittling his far more powerful foes. 
As the Clinton administration tries to temper its relish, senior officials 
are looking back at an opponent _ the last of the major East European 
strongmen _ who has caused as many internal debates and as much anguish 
in Washington as any other. Some of the skirmishes were between the 
secretary of state, Madeleine Albright, who with her Czechoslovakian 
origins and childhood memories of Belgrade holds a special kinship 
to the Balkans and Eastern Europe, and the ambassador to the United 
Nations, Richard Holbrooke, a forceful diplomat who orchestrated the 
unpalatable deal with Milosevic to end the war in Bosnia. From the 
beginning, these kinds of diplomatic differences marked Washington's 
relations with Yugoslavia. In 1990 and 1991, the ambassador to Yugoslavia, 
Warren Zimmerman, felt that the Bush administration, distracted by 
the Persian Gulf War, made too little effort, too late, to stop the 
brewing conflict in Yugoslavia. Secretary of State James Baker said 
in 1991 that the United States did ``not have a dog in that fight,'' 
that Washington's national interest was not centered on the Balkans 
and that it was unwise to commit American troops there. In 1992, while 
running for the presidency, Clinton seemed to suggest that he would 
do more to confront Milosevic and the Bosnian Serbs, who were besieging 
Sarajevo, the Bosnian capital, and conducting the worst killing in 
Europe since World War II. Once in power, the Clinton administration 
wanted little to do with the conflict, which it regarded as Europe's 
business and which it believed could be contained by U.N. sanctions 
imposed on Yugoslavia in 1992. In congressional testimony, Secretary 
of State Warren Christopher called the killing in Bosnia ``a problem 
from hell.'' In a tentative foray into the Balkans in 1993, Christopher, 
who never seemed persuaded by what he was trying to sell, went to 
Europe to persuade the allies to agree to a ``lift and strike'' policy. 
This called for the lifting of an arms embargo that had been placed 
on all of former Yugoslavia _ thus giving the well-armed Serbs an 
automatic advantage over the outgunned Bosnian Muslims _ and the launching 
of strategic NATO airstrikes at Bosnian Serb targets. The British 
and French, who had troops in Bosnia as part of a U.N. force, objected 
strongly to airstrikes, and the Clinton White House backed off. By 
1995, with the killing in Bosnia under way for three years and unpunished, 
the Clinton administration looked for a way to end the conflict. The 
engagement with Milosevic turned from sporadic contact to full-fledged 
diplomatic involvement. First, though, the administration had to make 
a critical decision. Should it deal with Milosevic, the mastermind 
of the war, or with his surrogates, the Bosnian Serbs, led by Radovan 
Karadzic? To decide that question, a diplomat with an uncanny skill 
for dealing with ugly regimes, Robert Frasure, was dispatched to Belgrade, 
where he held lengthy talks and had many meals with Milosevic. Frasure, 
who had negotiated with the Marxist dictator of Ethiopia _ Mengistu 
Haile Mariam _ who eventually fled his country, and then with the 
ruling white regime in South Africa that ultimately collapsed, recommended 
dealing directly with the boss of the Balkans, Milosevic. Frasure 
was one of four Americans killed when their armored personnel carrier 
drove over a mountainside in Bosnia as Holbrooke, Gen. Wesley Clark 
and other officials took a perilous road into Sarajevo because Bosnian 
Serb guns made it too dangerous to fly. Holbrooke then began a dizzying 
flurry of talks, meeting Milosevic as NATO launched its first sustained 
airstrikes against Bosnian Serb targets in September 1995. The negotiations 
culminated in the Dayton accords, reached at an Ohio Air Force Base 
that November and signed in Paris in December 1995. Critics charged 
that the administration became too close to Milosevic, treating him 
as part of the solution to the war, rather than part of the problem. 
At the time, there were arguments within the administration about 
whether sanctions against Milosevic should be eased. As ambassador 
to the United Nations, Albright was strongly opposed, as was Vice 
President Al Gore's top foreign policy adviser, Leon Fuerth. During 
this period, all kinds of American officials visited Milosevic, including 
senators and House members, who would be shown on Serbian television 
_ lending, for Milosevic's purposes, authenticity to his reign. After 
the Dayton deal, which resulted in the dispatch of more than 30,000 
peacekeeping troops to Bosnia, Holbrooke, and then the assistant secretary 
for European affairs, John Kornblum, continued to visit Belgrade. 
Their purpose was to persuade Milosevic to get his acolytes in the 
Serbian part of Bosnia to live up to their commitments at Dayton, 
including allowing Muslims hounded out of their homes to return. On 
one occasion, however, Milosevic delivered. In mid-1996, at Holbrooke's 
request, he engineered Karadzic's removal from office. By early 1998, 
Milosevic, as many feared, began to stir again, this time in the Serbian 
province of Kosovo, where a large Albanian majority began an armed 
rebellion against years of repression by the Yugoslav Army and Serbian 
police. Again, as in Bosnia, Milosevic's forces committed massacres 
and drove out thousands of Albanian families. In October 1998, Holbrooke 
returned to Belgrade to reason with the strongman. The upshot, after 
more than 10 days of argument and the threat of NATO bombing, was 
an agreement that allowed outside, unarmed monitors into Kosovo to 
observe a truce between the Serbian forces and the growing Kosovo 
Liberation Army. A massacre by Serbs in the Albanian village of Racak 
in January 1999 decisively broke the truce. By then Albright had decided 
that only force could bring Milosevic, now in charge of a diminished 
and isolated Serbia, under control. She argued strenuously at the 
White House for building a NATO consensus that if Milosevic did not 
agree to a NATO peacekeeping force in Kosovo he would be punished 
with airstrikes. She had also concluded that Yugoslavia, where she 
had walked the streets as a child when her father was the Czechoslovakian 
ambassador to Belgrade, could not be a normal country with Milosevic 
at the helm. (Her only encounter with Milosevic _ in May 1997 in Belgrade 
as part of a tour of the Balkans as Secretary of State _ was, according 
to aides, confrontational and blunt.) With the war in Kosovo over, 
Milosevic remained in power, though indicted for war crimes by the 
International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague. Albright made no secret 
of her desire to see him go. She argued that the Serbs, and Europe, 
needed and deserved better. When Milosevic announced in July that 
he was holding direct elections for the presidency on Sept. 24, Washington 
had already prepared some ground by financing civic groups and independent 
media opposed to his regime. This support was rapidly fortified and 
an anti-Milosevic operation, intended to keep in contact with the 
opposition movement, was established under the American ambassador, 
William Montgomery, in Budapest. But the administration had to be 
careful. The opposition presidential candidate, Vojislav Kostunica, 
was fiercely independent and critical of American policy in Kosovo 
and Bosnia. In the end, the sweeping anti-Milosevic election result 
and the strength of the sentiment on the streets of Belgrade late 
this week were the work of the people. For Holbrooke, Milosevic was 
``the arsonist of south-central Europe.'' ``As long as he was in power, 
you couldn't deal with the problems there,'' he said. ``Now he has 
gone, the real problems will emerge, but at least you can deal with 
them.'' Holbrooke, who has dealt with Milosevic more than any other 
American official, cautioned that Milosevic's quick decision to stay 
in political life would be ``vastly complicating.'' For Albright, 
the show of people power was a moment of vindication. She learned 
of Milosevic's collapse as she flew toward Washington after a disheartening 
round of Middle East talks. She was asked how his departure ranked 
among her moments in office. ``This is something very personal to 
me,'' she said, standing in the aisle of the secretary of state's 
plane. ``I have always felt very strongly that the Serbian people 
were terrific. They had gotten a lousy deal by being ruled by Milosevic.''