State and federal officers followed hundreds of leads Tuesday for 
two escaped Texas prison inmates following a raid on a trailer park 
that netted the peaceful capture of four others and an arsenal of 
guns. A trooper was killed in a traffic accident Tuesday while following 
up one of those leads. The seventh of the men who broke out of a maximum 
security prison nearly six weeks ago killed himself in a motor home 
that had been surrounded by authorities Monday in this foothills community 
about 50 miles southwest of Denver. Authorities said they had no definite 
word on the location of the missing inmates, Patrick Murphy Jr., 39, 
convicted of rape, and armed robber Donald Newbury, 38. They may have 
been in Woodland Park as recently as Sunday and may have left to get 
more money. ``We frankly don't know where they are,'' Mark Mershon, 
the top FBI agent in Denver, said early Tuesday. ``We have law-enforcement 
agencies not only throughout the state of Colorado but all over the 
country looking for these individuals.'' ``We're covering hundreds 
of leads,'' he told KUSA-TV in Denver. The head of the Texas prison 
system was more optimistic. ``We're in much, much better position 
and shape now than where we were December 13th. We do have a trail 
now. We do have leads that we can follow up and we're not that far 
behind them,'' Mac Stringfellow, chairman of the Texas Board of Criminal 
Justice, said at a news conference in Austin, Texas. A Colorado State 
Patrol trooper was killed Tuesday while pursuing what turned out to 
be an inaccurate tip about a van believed used by the missing men. 
Authorities said the trooper lost control of his car and slammed into 
a parked truck on Interstate 70. The van he was following later turned 
up at the Keystone ski resort full of construction workers. Police 
in Texas raided a house in El Paso on Monday afternoon after a tip 
that the two were inside, but there was no trace of the men. Inside 
the motor home, officers found a suicide note, $5,000 in cash and 
37 firearms, including 13 of the 14 weapons missing from the Texas 
prison, said Rich Marianos of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco 
and Firearms. The other weapons were all traced to a sporting goods 
store robbed shortly after the escape, he said. Some of the weapons 
had been altered, with shotgun barrels sawed off and serial numbers 
scraped off. He would not say if the inmate who killed himself wrote 
the suicide note and would not detail the contents. The four in custody 
were expected to appear Tuesday before a federal magistrate in nearby 
Divide. The breakthrough that sent authorities to the Coachlight motel 
and RV park in Colorado came from tips from residents after the TV 
show ``America's Most Wanted'' aired Saturday. Authorities believe 
all seven escaped convicts had been living in the motor home for up 
to three weeks. The heavily armed inmates broke out of the maximum-security 
prison Connally Unit in Kenedy, southeast of San Antonio, on Dec. 
13. Eleven days later, they allegedly shot and killed a policeman 
during a robbery at a sporting goods store near Dallas. The escape 
was the largest from a Texas state prison in modern history. A $500,000 
reward had been offered for information leading to the arrest and 
conviction of the officer's killer, but there was no word yet Tuesday 
on how or when that money might be distributed. Three of the inmates 
left the RV park Monday and drove to a convenience store, where they 
were arrested by SWAT officers who boxed in the stolen Jeep Cherokee 
they were driving. ``They were so overwhelmed. They couldn't do anything,'' 
said SWAT team commander Terry Maketa. Three of the men had handguns 
and Maketa braced for the worst while aiming his own pistol at one 
of the men. ``I thought at one point he was contemplating getting 
into a gunfight,'' he said. Captured were suspected ringleader George 
Rivas, 30, a convicted kidnapper and burglar; and Michael Rodriguez, 
38, and Joseph Garcia, 29, both convicted of murder. They did not 
resist or draw their weapons, authorities said. Randy Halprin, 23, 
walked out of the motor home, unaware of the presence of police. When 
Halprin realized he was surrounded, he ran to a nearby trailer, then 
emerged and surrendered, El Paso County Sheriff John Wesley Anderson 
said. Authorities said Halprin, who was serving time for beating an 
infant, had an old wound he may have suffered during the Christmas 
Eve robbery. Larry Harper, 37, convicted of aggravated sexual assault, 
killed himself inside the motor home after Halprin was captured, authorities 
said. ___ On the Net: Texas Department of Criminal Justice: http://www.tdcj.state.tx.us 
Irving Police Department: http://www.irvingpd.com