good evening. it looks like something out of the old west tonight, 
in colorado, as federal and local authorities are in an intense search 
for the final 2 of the texas 7, the gang of dangerous prison inmates 
who were on the run for more than a month. tonight, four are in custody, 
one is dead, and two have abandoned their getaway van. but they remain 
at large, armed and desperate. as you might expect, a lot of people 
are on edge tonight. we get the latest from nbc's shellee smith in 
colorado. tom, the four convicts were arrested yesterday were arranged 
momentsing aon escape and capital murder charges. all federal charges 
were dropped to speed their extradition to texas where they could 
face the death penalty if convicted. this afternoon, police find the 
brown econoline van, the latest getaway car used by the two convicts 
still at lae, dumped in a restaurant parking lot in colorado springs, 
just 25 miles from the site of yesterday's dramatic arrest. inside 
the van, police find blond hair dye and duffel bags. police comb the 
area for any sign of the fugitives. we're interested in reports of 
carjacking or attempted carjackings, missing persons. and today, more 
details emerge about how police finally tracked down the alleged killers. 
the tip that cracked the case comes sunday morning from three people 
who, police say, give incredibly detailed information of the suspects' 
birthmarks, etcetera. that way we became more convinced that these 
might be some of the texas seven. sunday, 4:15, police begin surveillance 
of the coachlight rv park. 8:30 monday morning, the trap to snare 
the convicts is set. teller county sheriff frank fehn drives his personal 
rv into the campground with seven fbi s.w.a.t. team members hiding 
inside. they wait and watch. two hours later, three of the convicts 
jump in a jeep cherokee and head for the western convenience store 
about a mile away. trooper eric zachareas follows. i started getting 
nervous is when i saw the jeep cherokee passing in front of this. 
"this is go time." as the convicts pull in for gas, 20 colorado state 
patrol officers surround the car, weapons drawn, and arrest the stunned 
escapees -- the gang's ringleader, george rivas, joseph garcia and 
michael rodriguez. police say all are heavily armed. a fourth convict 
surrenders. a fifth takes his own life. there were 35 weapons. they 
were loaded and cocked and ready for action, as we say. there were 
shotguns, assault rifles, handguns, thousands of rounds of ammunition. 
that's not all. police find $10,000 in cash, receipts for bulletproof 
vests and a suicide note left behind by larry harper. police have 
received hundreds of tips. they believe the two suspects are carrying 
as many as 20 weapons. right now, police are reviewing a surveillance 
tape from a 7-11 in colorado springs to see if they can gain any clues 
about where the suspects might be heading. tom?