other big story, in colorado today, law enforcement officials found 
the van if they believe the two remaining members of the texas seven 
used to evade the police yesterday. four of the escaped convicts were 
captured and one apparently committed suicide. law enforcement officials 
say they are close to the ones who got away. and abc's mike von fremd 
is out in colorado tonight. mike? peter, the convicts now in custody 
are divulging critical details about the two still on the loose that 
police hope will lead to their capture. s.w.a.t. teams are going door 
to door, looking for the two convicts at this small colorado springs 
hotel. a brown ford van was discovered near the hotel. it is believed 
to be the convictsgetaway car, based on what was found inside. they 
had a map, and they had all kinds of duffle bags, and they had hair 
color in there. 20 miles away, in woodland park, federal agents are 
still looking for clues in this recreational vehicle in which the 
gang lived. they say the seven were all on this mountaintop since 
new year's day. there were 35 weapons in there. they were loaded. 
they were cocked and ready for action, as we say. the fbi is now focusing 
on any crime reported in the colorado springs area. we are interested 
in reports of carjacking or attempted carjacking, missing person. 
yesterday, members of the gang were filling their jeep at this local 
gas station. they were completely surprised by police, who had been 
following them all day. there was that moment of hesitation where 
they didn't know what was going on, and before they knew it, there 
was six deputies on them. the deputies were startled by the gang's 
appearance. george rivas, the leader, had bleached his hair. one had 
dyed his hair almost a bleach-blond. another of the initial three 
that were first taken into custody, his hair was almost kind of an 
orange-reddish color. the cloner of the trailer park, wre the texas 
seven hid out for three weeks, was stunned to learn of their identity. 
i talked to these guys daily. i went to their trailer daily. after 
his capture, rivas apologized to officials for what he had done. rivas 
said that he had a change of heart and wanted to change his life and 
what he had been doing. the search is now concentrated on the colorado 
springs area. peter, officials are hopeful that with rivas, the mastermind 
of the great escape now in jail, the two still on the run will not 
be able to evade police much longer. thank you very much, mike von 
fremd in colorado. a exchange of heart from the gang leader. at the 
end of the broadcast tonight, by the way, we'll do a piece on the 
television broadcast that help to catch them.