nbc news "in depth" tonight -- the capture of the texas fugitives. 
at any given time in this country, the fbi is looking for as many 
as 7,000 fugitives. and u.s. marshals are on t tfor another 14,000 
wanted on state and local felony charges. one resource which has proved 
very helpful to law enforcement officials all over this country, as 
it was with the texas 7, a tv show that was almost yanked off the 
air. nbc's pete williams has more tonight on the impressive track 
record of "america's most wanted." they may not look like crime fighters, 
but police nationwide say they are. "america's most wanted." these 
phone bank operators, often the very first to know when a dangerous 
fugitive is spotted. can you give me a description of the vehicle 
or anything? anything unusual about it? as the program prepares to 
begin its 14th year on the air, the man who has been the host since 
the beginning he became a victim's advocate after his son was kidnapped 
and murdered. viewers call in to help. most of the people who call 
in, they are doing it because they just want to see these dirt bags 
off the street. the formula works, and the very first broadcast proved 
that. it featured a segment on one of the fbi's ten most wanted fugitives, 
convicted of four murders who escaped from an indiana prison. if you 
know anything about david james roberts, call now. someone did, and 
he was found in new york city just four days later, using an alias 
and running a homeless shelter. since then, the program's producers 
say viewer tips have led to the capture of 646 fugitives, an average 
of nearly one a week. we do five or six or seven cases every week. 
and they are all coming mostly from victims who write to us and say, 
"somebody has killed my sister or my husband or my father, and you 
can't let this guy get away with it. can you please help?" while it's 
now the longest running series on fox, network executives tried to 
cancel it five years ago, citing low ratings. they backed down, faced 
with an intense letter-writing campaign. "american's most wanted" 
turned out to have friends in high places -- the fbi, u.s. marshall's 
service, atf, state governors, police chiefs. all spoke up to rescue 
the program. it's a forum by which we can highlight those cases that 
are high profile or very dangerous cases or cases that are a priority 
to us. the idea itself is as old as radio, broadcasting the names 
of criminals on the loose. past network shows have occasionally featured 
programs on actual fugitives. and many television stations offer their 
own crime stoppers reports on local fugitives. since we met last week, 
we've captured two of the ten most wanted, but there's even some out 
there that we still need help capturing. but when a fugitive could 
be anywhere from coast to coast -- we got 'em, the gang that busted 
out of jail in texas -- the nation's police put out their own 911 
call pete williams, nbc news, washington. --