Hiding out for three weeks in a southern Colorado trailer park with 
a small arsenal of weapons and thousands of dollars in cash, seven 
fugitives from Texas casually mingled with neighbors and shopped at 
local stores, but always without drawing too much attention to themselves, 
residents of the area said Tuesday. The men's stay at the Coachlight 
Motel and R.V. Park in Woodland Park, Colo., ended abruptly on Monday 
when the authorities apprehended four of them, and a fifth, unwilling 
to surrender, shot himself to death inside the motor home in which 
the men were living. The two others remained on the loose Tuesday, 
although investigators said they had found a van in a motel parking 
lot in Colorado Springs, about 20 miles southeast of the Coachlight, 
that the two had used to leave the trailer park on Sunday. Investigators 
said they were still piecing together how the men traveled undetected 
from Texas, why they chose Woodland Park for their hideout and what 
they did during three weeks there. But it was clear to several of 
their neighbors that the men did as much as they could to fit in, 
and one of the men even attended a Bible-reading group at the park. 
Marilyn Murray, who lives with her three teenage boys next door to 
where the fugitives' 34-foot motor home was parked, said she and her 
sons saw the men frequently. ``They told people they were here to 
attend a religious convention,'' Murray said in an interview Tuesday. 
``Whenever they would go outside to work on a vehicle, they would 
play religious music.'' They often worked on the three vehicles they 
seemed to own _ the motor home, the van that was found Tuesday and 
a Jeep Cherokee in which three of the men _Joseph C. Garcia, Michael 
Anthony Rodriguez and George Rivas _ were apprehended on Monday outside 
a convenience store about a mile away. The fourth, Randy Halprin, 
gave himself up later, walking out of the motor home several hours 
before Larry Harper, who was also inside, killed himself. The seven 
arranged an elaborate escape on Dec. 13 from a Texas prison. They 
are suspected of robbing a sporting goods store in Irving, Texas, 
on Christmas Eve, killing a police officer in the process. But their 
whereabouts were a mystery until last Sunday, after residents of the 
Coachlight watched the television program ``America's Most Wanted'' 
and notified local authorities that the Texas Seven, as they had come 
to be known, were living among them. In Woodland Park, the men kept 
a relatively low profile, but not so much that anyone would have regarded 
them as reclusive. John F. Clark, a chief inspector in charge of domestic 
investigations for the U.S. Marshals Office in Texas, said Harper 
had attended the park's Thursday night Bible sessions regularly. Gina 
Holder, an owner of the Coachlight, said Harper identified himself 
as Brother Jim. ``We knew from his prison time that he was a born-again 
Christian,'' Clark said. ``That was something that helped it fit.'' 
Murray said two of her sons had conversations with two of the fugitives. 
She said that her oldest, Mark, 17, ``bummed cigarettes'' from a man 
that he now believed was Rivas, 30, who was serving 99 years for kidnapping 
and burglary, and that he found him ``very congenial.'' Another neighbor, 
Randy Judd, said he, too, assumed the men were religious, largely 
from the ``Christian music'' he heard them playing ``real loud and 
all the time.'' But he never made much small talk with the men, Judd 
said. ``It was odd,'' he said. ``As we would approach any of them 
or try to associate with them, they would shy away, avoid eye contact, 
especially when they first moved in.'' When the men left the grounds, 
they often went to the nearby Western Convenience Store and Gas Station. 
``They had been coming in every day to get coffee and pastries,'' 
said Sammi McCombs, the assistant manager, recalling morning visits. 
``I remember one time it was all seven of them. Usually, it was just 
the three that were here yesterday. Two of them stayed quiet. One 
that paid was usually talkative.'' For the three who drove for coffee 
on Monday it was a fateful visit. As they approached the shop, the 
men were surrounded by law enforcement officers with guns drawn. A 
tense moment followed. ``We didn't see instantaneous compliance,'' 
Mark Mershon, special agent in charge of the Denver office of the 
FBI, said at a news conference here Tuesday. ``We felt they were contemplating 
a run and making a gun battle of it before they gave up.'' Each of 
the men was carrying a handgun, Mershon said. He said investigators 
completed their search Tuesday of the motor home, where they found 
35 loaded weapons, including handguns, assault weapons and sawed-off 
shotguns. He said they also found thousands of rounds of ammunition, 
thousands of dollars in cash and receipts from stores in Denver and 
one of its suburbs, Aurora, for the purchase of bullet-proof vests. 
The vests, he added, have not been found, leading the authorities 
to think they might have been taken by the two men still at large, 
Patrick Murphy Jr. and Donald Newbury. Mershon said a reward of about 
$500,000 was being offered for information leading to their capture. 
The authorities said they were led to the van the two had used after 
workers at the Hungry Farmer restaurant noticed it in their lot near 
the motel early Tuesday. ``I don't think they are around,'' said Wilma 
David, 65, a baker at the restaurant. ``There are railroad tracks 
and a gulch and the highway all right here. So they're probably long 
gone.'' Tom Strickland, the U.S. attorney for Colorado, said at the 
news conference that the authorities in Texas and Colorado had agreed 
to drop all federal charges against the men in custody to expedite 
their extradition to Texas. In providing details of the events of 
the last few days, Mershon and Strickland said they could not discuss 
some evidence, including how the fugitives settled upon Woodland Park, 
a small town of 7,000. Mershon said he could not rule out the possibility 
that one of the men had a friend or relative in the area, a possibility 
bolstered by Judd and Murray. Both said that over the men's first 
weekend at the trailer park, they saw three other cars parked near 
the motor home. ``I know they had company,'' Murray said. Judd berated 
himself for not being more suspicious. ``I could kick myself,'' he 
said. ``If I had only known. I was in perfect position to have taken 
some incredible photographs.''