As part of his successful last-minute bid for a pardon from President 
Clinton, Marc Rich, the commodities trader who had evaded prosecution 
for 18 years, received letters of support from dozens of politicians, 
financiers and officials of charitable organizations that were given 
to Clinton last month. While Clinton's pardon of Rich on Saturday 
stunned U.S. law-enforcement officials, the effort to obtain it was 
no secret to dozens of influential people in this country, Europe 
and Israel. The list of people who wrote letters for or about Rich 
in the last two months of 2000 is a virtual Who's Who of Israeli society 
and Jewish philanthropy. It includes Shabtai Shavit, a businessman 
who once headed Israel's secret intelligence arm; Zubin Mehta, the 
managing director of Israel's Philharmonic; two former mayors of Israeli 
cities; and several museum directors. More than 20 people joined Rich's 
ex-wife, Denise Rich, in addressing letters to Clinton seeking a pardon, 
and more than 50 others wrote letters to Rich or his charitable foundation 
simply attesting to his generosity. The letters were attached to a 
request for a pardon that was sent directly to Clinton in December 
by three lawyers representing Rich. The application makes no mention 
of contrition on the part of Rich, emphasizing instead his philanthropic 
efforts and the suffering it says he has endured in exile at Switzerland 
and Spain homes. The only blame is reserved for federal prosecutors 
and the lawyers who handled Rich's original defense, which, his current 
lawyers wrote, ``followed an unfortunate'' strategy of no communication 
and no negotiation. Rich and his former partner, Pincus Green, have 
lived in Europe since they fled the United States during an investigation 
into their oil-trading activities that led to a 1983 indictment on 
51 counts of tax evasion, racketeering and violating sanctions against 
trading with Iran. Neither man is now a U.S. citizen, the application 
to Clinton says, though it does not address how that came about. The 
pardons granted to both men on Saturday eliminated the charges and 
freed them to return to the United States, said Robert F. Fink, a 
partner in the Manhattan law firm Piper, Marbury, Rudnick &AMP; Wolfe. 
Fink teamed with Jack Quinn, a former chief of staff to Vice President 
Al Gore and a former counsel to President Clinton, and Kathleen Behan, 
a lawyer in Washington. The pardon has drawn harsh criticism from 
prosecutors and former prosecutors, including Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, 
who was the U.S. attorney in Manhattan when the men were charged. 
The first word of the pardon, which did not make the usual rounds 
inside the Justice Department, reached lawyers in the U.S. attorney's 
office on Saturday morning, leaving them ``shocked and absolutely 
flabbergasted,'' according to one person who works there. In their 
petition, Rich's lawyers argued that the ``recalcitrant and unreasonable 
refusal'' by the federal prosecutors to negotiate with them unless 
Rich returned left a presidential pardon as the only way to ``resolve 
the controversy.'' Clinton said on Sunday that Quinn had persuaded 
him to grant pardons to Rich and Green, but he did not elaborate and 
he referred questions to Quinn. Quinn referred calls to Fink, who 
said he believed the president had been convinced that the criminal 
charges against the men had not been justified. Denise Rich, a prominent 
fund-raiser for the Democratic Party, also called the White House 
to ask for a pardon for her ex-husband, Fink said. A spokesman for 
Denise Rich had said on Monday that she had not been involved in the 
effort to obtain a pardon and was surprised when it was granted. Tuesday, 
Denise Rich hired a new spokesman, Howard J. Rubenstein, and is said 
to be looking to hire a lawyer. Rubenstein said: ``Denise Rich is 
happy for her children that her ex-husband has been pardoned. Of course, 
she supported his application.'' Marc Rich's lawyers were able to 
call in favors from many high-level executives and officials in Israel 
who had crossed paths with Rich. ``Marc Rich has been one of our most 
important private individuals involved in the leading issues of our 
times,'' said Yaakov Neeman, Israel's finance minister, in a letter 
dated Nov. 29. Shavit, the head of Israel's intelligence arm, Mossad, 
from 1989 to 1996, and now a businessman, wrote a letter dated Nov. 
28 in support of the application. ``As head of Mossad,'' he wrote, 
``we requested his assistance in looking for MIAs and help in the 
rescue and evacuation of Jews from enemy countries.'' Many of the 
letters attesting to his years of good works were faxed to the attention 
of Avner Azulay at the Rich Foundation in Tel Aviv. For instance, 
Israel's Philharmonic ``has been privileged to enjoy a close and special 
friendship with the Rich Foundation,'' wrote Mehta on Nov. 20. No 
kindness was too small to recall: ``Thank you again for the air-conditioner 
for the blind couple,'' wrote Shlomo Lahat, the former mayor of Tel 
Aviv, on Nov. 26. Some letter writers could not resist including some 
dismay about gifts not made. Jonathan Halevy, the director-general 
of Shaare Zedek Hospital, acknowledged the gifts his organization 
received from 1981 to 1994 but could not resist adding, ``The hospital 
has regretfully received no further support from the foundation since 
1994.''