The seven escaped convicts from Texas played loud Christian music 
in their cramped RV _ perhaps to make themselves look innocent and 
God-fearing _ and kept mostly to themselves as they hid out in this 
peaceful town for three weeks. At least one of the men attended Bible 
study sessions and befriended several residents, who were impressed 
with his knowledge of Scripture. Several frequented a coffee shop. 
Some even felt safe enough to go drinking and dancing in area nightclubs. 
But they kept their heads down while walking past others through the 
itinerant workers' mobile home park where their RV was parked. And 
at least two had disguised themselves by dyeing their hair. Woodland 
Park Police Sgt. Bill Sumner speculated the men played Christian music 
for well-calculated reasons. ``That's what I'd do in a heartbeat,'' 
Sumner said. ``The No. 1 way to look innocuous and innocent is to 
look real religious.'' He said he wasn't surprised the men melted 
into the town without arousing suspicion: ``They were pillars of the 
community for the time they were here.'' One of the biggest manhunts 
in the Southwest's history ended Monday for five of the convicts. 
Four were arrested peacefully and a fifth killed himself in the motor 
home at the Coachlight Motel and RV Park rather than surrender to 
law officers who had the place surrounded. The two other convicts 
remained at large Tuesday as state and federal officers pursued thousands 
of leads. A van used by the missing two was found abandoned in a Colorado 
Springs motel parking lot Tuesday, and authorities checked hotels 
for the men. The van was said to contain duffel bags, maps and hair 
color. Federal firearms charges were dismissed Tuesday against the 
four in custody to expedite their transfer to Texas, where they could 
face the death penalty on state murder charges in the slaying of a 
policeman during a holdup at a sporting goods store 11 days after 
they broke out of prison. Also Tuesday, a Colorado State Patrol trooper 
was killed in a crash while pursuing what turned out to be an inaccurate 
tip about the fugitives' van. The two convicts on the run _ Patrick 
Murphy Jr., a 39-year-old rapist, and armed robber Donald Newbury, 
38 _ are believed to have 12 weapons, including assault rifles and 
shotguns, and may also have bulletproof vests. Teller County Undersheriff 
Kevin Dougherty said investigators do not believe there was any rift 
among the seven. ``It's our understanding that they left to break 
away from the group and to go out and do their own thing,'' he said. 
Inside the RV, officers found a ``personal note'' from Larry Harper, 
the convict who killed himself, to his family; the contents were not 
disclosed. Also found were $10,000 in cash, thousands of rounds of 
ammunition, two-way radios, a medical kit and receipts for bulletproof 
vests, recently purchased in Denver and Aurora, said Mark Mershon, 
FBI agent in the charge in Colorado. In addition, ``there were 35 
weapons in there, loaded, cocked and ready for action, as we say,'' 
Mershon said. Some of the guns were taken from the Texas prison; others 
were traced to the sporting goods store, he said. After the discovery 
of the van, 11 schools in the Colorado Springs were locked down as 
a precaution and students were kept inside until the end of the school 
day. The seven fugitives broke out of a maximum-security prison in 
Kenedy, Texas, southeast of San Antonio, on Dec. 13. They were believed 
to have been in the Woodland Park area since around New Year's Day. 
Authorities were tipped off to their presence by residents who had 
seen the convicts featured on TV's ``America's Most Wanted.'' A $500,000 
reward had been offered for information leading to the conviction 
of the officer's killer, but there was no immediate word on how or 
when that money might be distributed. The three convicts captured 
at a convenience store near the RV park were suspected ringleader 
George Rivas, 30, a kidnapper and burglar; and Michael Rodriguez, 
38, and Joseph Garcia, 29, both murderers. Randy Halprin, 23, who 
had been serving time for beating an infant, surrendered a short time 
later at the motor home. Harper, 37, convicted of aggravated sexual 
assault, shot himself to death inside the motor home. Coachlight residents 
said Harper was a deeply religious person who attended Bible study 
with them. Michael Judd, 15, who lived with his family next door, 
said he thought the men were members of a music group. Authorities 
said Rodriguez had grown a full beard, Rivas had dyed his hair blond 
and wore sunglasses and a new goatee, and Garcia had dyed his hair 
orange and grown a goatee. Neighbors told authorities the men were 
seen leaving the park in small groups at all times of the day, apparently 
to run errands. Shane Denn, 30, who lives nearby, said he had seen 
the men several times while visiting friends, most recently on Saturday. 
``There must have been five or six of them. They were carrying on 
like everything was normal,'' he said. ``I've been over there at least 
a dozen times since they checked in and never saw anything out of 
the ordinary.'' Authorities speculated the fugitives bought the motor 
home with some of the $70,000 stolen during the sporting goods store 
holdup. ___ On the Net: Texas Department of Criminal Justice: http://www.tdcj.state.tx.us 
Irving Police Department: http://www.irvingpd.com