Martina Hingis spoiled a potential sibling showdown at the Australian 
Open by winning a dramatic marathon from Serena Williams 6-2, 3-6, 
8-6 to complete the women's quarterfinals Wednesday. Williams' sister, 
Venus, earlier overcame a slow start and a late deficit to edge Amanda 
Coetzer in another extended third set, 2-6, 6-1, 8-6. In Thursday's 
semifinals, the top-seeded Hingis will renew her rivalry with third-seeded 
Venus Williams, who needs two more victories for her third consecutive 
Grand Slam tournament title. Hingis leads the matchup 9-7, but Williams 
won both meetings last year en route to titles at Wimbledon and the 
U.S. Open. Defending champion Lindsay Davenport, seeded second, will 
play No. 12 Jennifer Capriati in the other semifinal. Hingis is bidding 
for her sixth Grand Slam tournament title but her first in two years. 
She trailed 4-1 in the third set and was two points from defeat at 
5-4, deuce. But she broke Williams' serve to reach 5-5, then broke 
again in the final game, winning the second match point with an overhead 
smash. The victory took 2 hours, 19 minutes. Williams struggled with 
her serve, committed 54 errors and complained of an upset stomach. 
She received treatment from a trainer during several changeovers, 
and she sometimes grimaced or bent over in apparent discomfort between 
points. Venus Williams trailed Coetzer 5-3 in the final set and won 
despite a whopping 56 unforced errors. ``I pretty much fought for 
everything I got,'' Venus Williams said. ``Toward the end I cut down 
on my errors and moved forward. I had been in that situation many 
times before. I had the experience of being in the hole.'' Defending 
men's champ Andre Agassi, seeded sixth, will play No. 12 Patrick Rafter 
in the men's semifinals Thursday night. Rafter reached the final four 
in his country's biggest tournament for the first time by beating 
No. 14 Dominik Hrbaty 6-2, 6-7 (4), 7-5, 6-0 Tuesday night. No. 5 
Yevgeny Kafelnikov was the top-seeded player remaining in the other 
half of the draw. Venus Williams is 11 inches taller than the 5-foot-2 
Coetzer and hits her serves 25 mph faster, which made their pairing 
look like a mismatch. For a while it was. Coetzer, seeded 10th, was 
content to keep the ball in play and wait for errors by an erratic 
Williams, who lost the first eight points, lost 16 of the first 19 
and fell behind 4-0. In the first set she committed 19 errors and 
hit just one winner. ``Let's go, Venus, wake up!'' a fan shouted. 
She did, holding serve with an ace to start the second set, then breaking 
for the first time when Coetzer double-faulted. Mistakes began to 
creep into the South African's game, while Williams tamed her wild 
strokes somewhat. ``I really had to pick myself up if I wanted to 
stay in the tournament,'' Williams said. ``I don't like to lose, and 
I just really didn't want to.'' But the rallies became especially 
sloppy down the stretch. Coetzer served for the victory at 5-3 but 
quickly committed four unforced errors and lost the game. Williams 
then had a chance to serve it out at 6-5 but won only one point, double-faulted 
and hit three groundstrokes wide to lose the game. Williams broke 
again, then concluded the ragged victory with an overhead winner. 
She smiled and sagged her shoulders in relief at her second consecutive 
three-set win. ``Today,'' she admitted, ``was not one of my better 
days.'' The start of the match was delayed half an hour by a shower 
that caught tournament officials by surprise. Play began after the 
retractable center court roof was closed for only the second time 
in the tournament. Asked about playing indoors, Williams said she 
regretted wearing a cap during the match. ``It affected my hairstyle,'' 
she said. ``If I had known they were going to close the roof, I would 
have worn a ponytail.''