One Williams down, one to go for Martina Hingis. The top-seeded Hingis 
spoiled a potential sibling showdown at the Australian Open by winning 
a sloppy but dramatic marathon from Serena Williams 6-2, 3-6, 8-6 
to complete the women's quarterfinals Wednesday. Williams' sister, 
Venus, earlier overcame a slow start and a late deficit to edge Amanda 
Coetzer in another extended third set, 2-6, 6-1, 8-6. In Thursday's 
semifinals, Hingis will renew her rivalry with the third-seeded Venus 
Williams, who needs two more victories for her third consecutive Grand 
Slam tournament title. Hingis leads the matchup 9-7, but Williams 
won both meetings last year en route to titles at Wimbledon and the 
U.S. Open. Defending champion Lindsay Davenport, seeded second, will 
play No. 12 Jennifer Capriati in the other semifinal. Serena Williams, 
who often blames health problems for her defeats, said a bout of food 
poisoning contributed to the latest loss. ``I wasn't at my best or 
feeling my best, so I'm pretty disappointed,'' she said in a statement. 
``I did well considering I haven't eaten in two days, apart from some 
piece of toast here and there.'' Williams consulted with a trainer 
during several changeovers after the first set, and she grimaced or 
bent over in apparent discomfort after a few points. Hingis trailed 
4-1 in the final set and was two points from defeat at 5-4, deuce. 
But she broke Williams' serve to reach 5-5, then broke again in the 
final game, winning the second match point with an overhead smash. 
``It was a great comeback,'' Hingis said. ``I was just trying to hang 
in there. I wasn't feeling that great.'' Williams struggled with her 
serve and committed 54 errors, 29 in the final set. But Hingis needed 
2 hours, 19 minutes to secure the victory. ``It was a great effort 
by both of us, and I was lucky,'' Hingis said. She's bidding for her 
sixth Grand Slam tournament title but her first in two years. Three 
times Hingis has defeated one Williams sister and then lost to the 
other in the same event, most recently at the 1999 U.S. Open, when 
Serena beat her in the final. Only twice has a player beaten both 
sisters in the same tournament: Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario at Sydney 
in 1998 and Monica Seles at Sydney in 1999. It was almost a Coetzer-Hingis 
semifinal. Venus Williams trailed Coetzer 5-3 in the final set and 
won despite a whopping 56 unforced errors. ``I pretty much fought 
for everything I got,'' Venus Williams said. ``Toward the end I cut 
down on my errors and moved forward. I had been in that situation 
many times before. I had the experience of being in the hole.'' Defending 
men's champ Andre Agassi, seeded sixth, will play No. 12 Patrick Rafter 
in the men's semifinals Thursday night. Rafter reached the final four 
in his country's biggest tournament for the first time by beating 
No. 14 Dominik Hrbaty 6-2, 6-7 (4), 7-5, 6-0 Tuesday night. No. 5 
Yevgeny Kafelnikov was the top-seeded player remaining in the other 
half of the draw. Venus Williams is 11 inches taller than the 5-foot-2 
Coetzer and hits her serves 25 mph faster, which made their pairing 
look like a mismatch. For a while it was. Coetzer, seeded 10th, was 
content to keep the ball in play and wait for errors by an erratic 
Williams, who lost the first eight points, lost 16 of the first 19 
and fell behind 4-0. In the first set she committed 19 errors and 
hit just one winner. ``Let's go, Venus, wake up!'' a fan shouted. 
She did, holding serve with an ace to start the second set, then breaking 
for the first time when Coetzer double-faulted. Mistakes began to 
creep into the South African's game, while Williams tamed her wild 
strokes somewhat. ``I really had to pick myself up if I wanted to 
stay in the tournament,'' Williams said. ``I don't like to lose, and 
I just really didn't want to.'' But the rallies became especially 
sloppy down the stretch. Coetzer served for the victory at 5-3 but 
quickly committed four unforced errors and lost the game. Williams 
then had a chance to serve it out at 6-5 but won only one point, double-faulted 
and hit three groundstrokes wide to lose the game. Williams broke 
again, then concluded the ragged victory with an overhead winner. 
She smiled and sagged her shoulders in relief at her second consecutive 
three-set win. ``Today,'' she admitted, ``was not one of my better 
days.'' The start of the match was delayed half an hour by a shower 
that caught tournament officials by surprise. Play began after the 
retractable center court roof was closed for only the second time 
in the tournament. Asked about playing indoors, Williams said she 
regretted wearing a cap during the match. ``It affected my hairstyle,'' 
she said. ``If I had known they were going to close the roof, I would 
have worn a ponytail.''