good wednesday morning to you, i'm kathleen kennedy, in for jacque 
today. our top story this half hour -- prosecutors in dallas say they 
plan to seek the death penalty against the newly recaptured texas 
fugitives, pending their extradition. the final two convicts were 
arrested early this morning in colorado springs, colorado, and are 
now in custody. they emerged unarmed from the hotel where they were 
holed up, and surrendered peacefully to the fbi and local authorities. 
they had agreed to turn themselves in after they were each given the 
chance to speak with a local tv reporter by phone for about five minutes. 
during that conversation, they complained about the conditions in 
texas prisons. and they also shed some light on how they were able 
to elude authorities. okay, yes, we attempted to be as friendly and 
as neighborly as we could, as far as the christian meetings were, 
that was only one man. he was the man who committed suicide. that 
was part of the cover, i guess you could say. we were trying to -- 
he was trying to pass us off as a -- like a church work crew traveling 
around. police say they quickly surrounded the hotel after getting 
a tip the fugitives were there. the hotel is just two blocks from 
a parking lot where their van was found yesterday. after the convicts 
surrendered, police got a search warrant for the room. they say what 
they found justified their decision to negotiate, instead of using 
immediate force. we were very happy there was a peaceful resolution 
and everyone worked together to avoid a conflict. during the course 
of the negotiations, we obtained a search warrant for the room and 
recovered the additional 12 guns so now all the weapons have been 
recovered, all 60, from the original seven are now in police custody 
with no more crime guns on the street. so you can't ask for anything 
better in terms of an atf investigation. the men arrested this morning 
have been identified as patrick murphy jr., a convicted rapist, and 
donald newbury, who was convicted of armed robbery. if murphy, newbury, 
and the other four captured fugitives waive extradition, authorities 
say they could be back in texas by the end of the week. if not, officials 
say it could take four to six weeks before legal proceedings are completed 
for their return.