Cornered in a hotel room, the last two Texas prison escapees surrendered 
without a fight early Wednesday, 42 days after they broke out of a 
maximum security unit with an arsenal of weapons. Patrick Murphy Jr., 
a 39-year-old rapist, and Donald Newbury, a 38-year-old robber, walked 
bare chested out of the hotel room where they had been holed up after 
about five hours of negotiations with police and an interview with 
a TV station. ``They had their say by telephone and then we had them 
back out of the room, shirtless, hands in the air, no weapons on them,'' 
FBI agent Mark Mershon said. The men each had a five-minute telephone 
interview with Colorado Springs' KKTV before surrendering at 3:45 
a.m. Newbury told anchorman Eric Singer the Dec. 13 breakout was a 
statement against Texas' judicial system. ``We had a statement to 
make that the system is as corrupt as we are. You going to do something 
about us, well, do something about that system, too,'' Newbury said. 
Murphy said he was up for parole when he broke out. ``What forced 
me to do this was the penal institution and such. The way Texas has 
things set up ... I'd eventually become an outlaw again anyway because 
of parole stipulations and such.'' ``I hope that maybe what we're 
doing here will open the eyes of people.'' Newbury and Muprhy were 
handcuffed and put into separate patrol cars that slowly rolled out 
of the parking lot of the Holiday Inn. They were taken to the police 
department and were to be transferred to the El Paso County jail, 
also in Colorado Springs. Their four surviving companions were held 
in a detention center in Teller County about 20 miles away. ``This 
episode is now closed and finalized,'' police Lt. Skip Arms said. 
``I think they felt that they had some message that they wanted to 
convey,'' Arms said. ``Since we showed a level of trust to them, they 
followed through and showed a level of trust and did follow through 
on their commitment.'' The arrests brought to an end a frustrating 
hunt _ one of the largest in the Southwest's history _ for the seven 
convicts who bluffed their way out of the prison in Kenedy, Texas, 
southeast of San Antonio. Four were arrested peacefully Monday at 
a convenience store and at a motor home in nearby Woodland Park. A 
fifth killed himself in the motor home as authorities closed in. Authorities 
have said the men robbed an Irving, Texas, sporting goods store and 
killed Officer Aubrey Hawkins when he arrived. He was shot 11 times 
and run over by a vehicle. That heightened fears the men would not 
surrender peacefully. ``Now we can get down to business and get some 
changes in this lousy Texas penal system,'' Jayne Hawkins, the officer's 
mother told The Associated Press on Wednesday. ``My son will not die 
in vain.'' The seven arrived in Colorado the last week in December, 
spending time in Pueblo, about 100 miles south of Denver, before renting 
a space for their motor home in the Coachlight Motel and RV Park in 
Woodland Park around Jan. 1. ``We had to drive out of the Texas snow 
storm that hit right at Christmas Eve in the Amarillo area and we 
had to drive through the blizzard for hours and literally, Colorado 
was just a random pick,'' Murphy said during his interview. They led 
the park manager and neighbors to believe they were Christian missionaries 
en route from Texas to California, while keeping as many as three 
dozen weapons, loaded and cocked, in the cramped RV. ``We joked about 
it often, but it really was just by downplaying ourselves and changing 
our hair color and such,'' Murphy said. ``We attempted to be as friendly 
and neighborly as we could.'' Authorities believe Murphy and Newbury 
split from the others last weekend because they wanted to obtain more 
money. After the four were arrested Monday, police and FBI agents 
began to close in on Murphy and Newbury. The next day, they found 
their van abandoned in a motel parking lot two blocks from the Holiday 
Inn. Since no vehicles had been reported stolen, officers searched 
door to door. They received a tip the two were at the Holiday Inn 
and surrounded the hotel, opening negotiations via telephone at about 
10 p.m. It was a weekend airing of the prison escapees' story on the 
television show ``America's Most Wanted'' that finally broke the case. 
A $500,000 reward had been offered for information leading to the 
conviction of the officer's killer, but there was no immediate word 
on how or when that money might be distributed. The show prompted 
several tips from residents that the fugitives may be in Woodland 
Park, a bedroom community of about 8,000 15 miles northwest of Colorado 
Springs. At a convenience store, authorities arrested suspected ringleader 
George Rivas, 30, who was serving a life sentence for aggravated robbery 
and kidnapping; and Michael Rodriguez, 38, and Joseph Garcia, 29, 
both murderers. At the same time, authorities surrounded the fugitives' 
motor home. Randy Halprin, 23, who had been serving time for beating 
an infant, surrendered. Larry Harper, 37, convicted of aggravated 
sexual assault, shot himself to death inside the RV. Murphy had been 
serving 50 years for aggravated sexual assault with a deadly weapon. 
Newbury was sentenced to 99 years for robbing a woman at a hotel in 
1997 with a sawed-off shotgun. ___ On the Net: Texas Department of 
Criminal Justice: http://www.tdcj.state.tx.us Irving Police Department: 
http://www.irvingpd.com