Serena Williams couldn't beat Martina Hingis despite a 4-1 lead in 
the final set. Now it is sister Venus' turn to try. Wimbledon, U.S. 
Open and Olympic champion Venus almost didn't do her part to reach 
the Australian Open semifinals. She sprayed 56 errors before surviving 
a late service break and beating No. 10 Amanda Coetzer 2-6, 6-1, 8-6 
Wednesday. Then the top-seeded Hingis spoiled a sibling semifinal 
by rallying for a 6-2, 3-6, 8-6 victory over Serena, who had 54 errors 
_ 29 of them in the final set. ``I was able to keep going and going 
until she would miss,'' Hingis said. Before going out to play doubles 
an hour after her singles, Serena sent word that she had not eaten 
anything but toast for two days because of food poisoning. She and 
Venus then beat Anna Kournikova and Barbara Schett 3-6, 6-1, 6-1 to 
advance to a semifinal against Hingis and Monica Seles. In an Australian 
Open warmup tournament, Hingis and Seles beat the Williams sisters. 
Serena said later that ``some pink stuff'' the trainer gave her after 
her first set of singles helped her recover by the third set from 
a dizzy feeling and to get her feet moving. After the doubles, she 
added, ``I could play another match.'' The men's side will have the 
first all-French semifinal at a Grand Slam tournament since 1983, 
between No. 15 Arnaud Clement and No. 16 Sebastien Grosjean. The winner 
becomes the first French finalist in an Australian Open since 1928. 
Clement capitalized on 79 errors by No. 5 Yevgeny Kafelnikov for a 
6-4, 5-7, 7-6 (3), 7-6 (3) victory, and celebrated by throwing his 
shirt and shoes into the crowd of nearly 15,000. Kafelnikov hit an 
overhead into the net on match point, ending a stellar run Down Under 
in which he won the Australian Open in 1999, was runner-up last year 
and won the Olympic gold medal. ``I can't believe it,'' said Clement, 
who has lost only one set in five matches here. In his first Grand 
Slam quarterfinal, Grosjean, conqueror of fourth-seeded Magnus Norman, 
ended the run of former No. 1 Carlos Moya with a 6-1, 6-4, 6-2 victory. 
Moya, coming back from injury, had beaten another former No. 1, Marcelo 
Rios, and seventh-seeded Lleyton Hewitt. Defending champion Andre 
Agassi already is in the semifinals, facing two-time U.S. Open champion 
Patrick Rafter on Thursday night. In three events, Hingis has defeated 
one Williams sister and then lost to the other, most recently at the 
1999 U.S. Open, when Serena beat her in the final. Two players have 
beaten both in the same tournament, both in Sydney. Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario 
did it in 1998 and Seles in 1999. Hingis needs to beat Venus just 
to get to the final of what she used to consider her very own tournament. 
She won it three times in a row before losing to Lindsay Davenport 
in last year's final. Davenport plays No. 12 Jennifer Capriati on 
Thursday for the other spot in the championship match. The trainer 
brought medicine for Serena after the first set against Hingis. She 
went on to win the second, thanks to a second-serve ace for set point 
and a Hingis forehand into the net. In the final set, after Hingis 
had closed from 1-4 to 4-all, Serena broke for 5-4. She pumped her 
fist after a backhand down the line put her two points from winning. 
That was as close as she got. Hingis won the game with two backhand 
crosscourts that caught Serena off-balance. Serena held serve for 
6-all, and two games later played a brilliant rally to erase Hingis' 
first match point. She sent Hingis running back with a lunging lob 
and then dived to put in a backhand angled drop volley. But she netted 
a forehand on the next point, and Hingis finished the 2-hour, 19-minute 
match with an angled overhead. Hingis said she didn't notice any indications 
of Williams' illness, but added: ``You have to watch what you eat.'' 
Hingis considered her first set the best tennis of her career. ``It 
was a great match from both of us. At the end, especially, it was 
whoever wanted it more and who was more lucky,'' she said. Thanks 
to playing and fitness improvements, ``you can't count on just overpowering 
me anymore,'' said the 20-year-old Swiss player, who is seeking her 
sixth Grand Slam tournament title. She has a 9-7 record against Venus, 
but lost their last two meetings. Serena said Hingis won ``with a 
lot of heart.'' Against the 5-foot-2 Coetzer, Venus, who is 6-1, lost 
the first eight points and first four games, prompting one fan to 
shout, ``Let's go, Venus, wake up!'' She did, racing through the second 
set. In the last set, however, errors crept back in _ 27 in the 14 
games. Coetzer broke for 5-3, but then lost the next game on errors. 
Venus returned that favor when serving for the match at 6-5, broke 
yet again for 7-6 and finished in 1:46 with an overhead. ``It's just 
not liking to lose,'' Venus said. ``Today was not one of my better 
days. ... I had no more room for error.'' She said Coetzer didn't 
do anything wrong, and ``there were times when I really just wouldn't 
move forward. It was terrible. I realized that I couldn't win the 
match like that.'' Serena said later, ``I had a long talk with (Venus) 
in the locker room. She's promised not to do a game like that anymore. 
She'll definitely be in better form tomorrow.'' Rain delayed the start 
of the match by half an hour while the court was dried and the roof 
closed on Rod Laver Arena. The change ``affected my hairstyle,'' Venus 
said, because she was expecting sun and had pulled her hair back to 
put on a visor. ``If I had known they were going to close the roof, 
I would have worn a ponytail,'' she added.