The last two of seven fugitives from a maximum security prison in 
Texas were apprehended early Wednesday morning in Colorado Springs, 
ending a 42-day nationwide search. Tracked down at a Holiday Inn where 
they negotiated the terms of their surrender with law enforcement 
officials for more than five hours, the last two fugitives _ Patrick 
Murphy Jr. and Donald Newbury _ walked out of the motel peacefully 
and were taken in separate cars to the El Paso County jail. The inmates, 
who staged an elaborate escape from the Connally Unit in Kenedy, Texas, 
on Dec. 13, are suspects in the slaying of a police officer in Irving, 
Texas, 11 days after their escape. As part of the surrender agreement, 
the men were allowed to speak for five minutes each with a Colorado 
Springs television reporter. Both complained about the Texas prison 
system, citing it as the reason they escaped. Their capture concluded 
one of the nation's most intense manhunts in recent years. Four of 
the escapees were apprehended on Monday in Woodland Park, Colo., a 
small community about 20 miles northwest of Colorado Springs, where 
the seven had been living in a motor home at the Coachlight Motel 
and R.V. Park since Jan. 1. Three of the men _ Joseph Garcia, Michael 
Anthony Rodriguez and George Rivas _ were captured as they drove to 
a convenience store. The fourth, Randy Halprin, gave himself up later, 
walking out of the motor home. Several hours later, Larry Harper, 
another escapee, killed himself inside the motor home after officers 
had tried to talk him into surrendering. Police officials in Colorado 
Spring and in Irving said their first priority was arranging the extradition 
of the men to Texas to face charges in the killing of the police officer. 
The officer was killed during the robbery of a sporting goods store. 
Officer David Tull, of the Irving force, said police also were investigating 
whether anyone helped the convicts while they were on the run. In 
the interview with KKTV, Murphy said he was ``forced'' to escape because 
of the prison system, and in breaking out was trying to make a statement 
that ``there is a definite wrong within the penal system of the state 
of Texas.'' Newbury said, ``The judicial system in the state of Texas 
has really gone to the pits. We're receiving 99 years for a robbery 
for $68 and nobody's injured.'' He said, ``They're giving kids so 
much time that they will never get to see light again. Their life 
is gone. Now all they are is a roach in a cage. Things have to be 
changed. There has to be more rehabilitation in the system down there.'' 
Tull rejected those statements. ``I don't see that they are the victims,'' 
he said. ``We buried the victims.'' According to Texas authorities, 
Garcia had been serving a 50-year sentence for murder; Halprin, 30 
years for injury to a child after he savagely beat up an infant; Harper, 
50 years for aggravated assault and sexual assault; Murphy, a 50-year 
sentence for aggravated assault with a deadly weapon; Newbury, a life 
sentence for aggravated robbery with a deadly weapon; Rivas, five 
years for burglary and kidnapping, and Rodriguez, a life sentence 
for capital murder. The captured inmates also described how they strove 
to elude detection at the mobile home park for three weeks. They did 
so ``just by downplaying ourselves and changing our hair color and 
such,'' Murphy said. ``We attempted to be as friendly and neighborly 
as we could.'' Harper, he said, attended ``Christian meetings'' as 
a guise ``to pass us off as like a church work group traveling around.'' 
Investigators said Tuesday they were still piecing together how the 
men traveled undetected from Texas, why they chose Woodland Park for 
their hideout, and what they did during three weeks there. Marilyn 
Murray, who lives with her three teen-age sons next door to where 
the fugitives' 34-foot motor home was parked, said she and her sons 
saw the men frequently. ``They told people they were here to attend 
a religious convention,'' Murray said in an interview Tuesday. ``Whenever 
they would go outside to work on a vehicle, they would play religious 
music.'' The whereabouts of the seven were a mystery until last Sunday, 
after residents of the Coachlight watched the television program, 
``America's Most Wanted,'' and notified local authorities that the 
Texas Seven, as they had come to be known, were living among them. 
Tull praised the help the police received from the public. ``The public 
is who called these tips in,'' he said. ``The system works, folks.'' 
No details have yet been worked out on how to grant $500,000 in reward 
money, he said. ``Rest assured that money is there for a purpose,'' 
he said. In the motor home, authorities said they found 35 loaded 
weapons, including handguns, assault weapons and sawed-off shotguns 
along with thousands of rounds of ammunition, thousands of dollars 
in cash and receipts from stores in Denver and one of its a suburbs, 
Aurora, for the purchase of bullet-proof vests. Tom Strickland, the 
U.S. attorney for Colorado, said at a news conference that the authorities 
in Texas and Colorado had agreed to drop all federal charges against 
the men in custody to expedite their extradition to Texas.