COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) _ KKTV-TV anchor Eric Singer became part 
of the news Wednesday. Singer interviewed Texas fugitives Patrick 
Murphy Jr. and Donald Newbury by phone for 10 minutes in a live broadcast 
as part of a deal negotiated by police for the men's surrender. ``This 
is the most important story I've ever been a part of,'' said Singer, 
43. ``I never in my wildest dreams ever imagined that I would play 
a role like this.'' After the interviews, at about 3:45 a.m., Murphy, 
a 39-year-old rapist, and Newbury, a 38-year-old robber, walked out 
of the hotel room where they had been holed up during about five hours 
of negotiations with police. Officers took the pair to jail. The men 
were among seven inmates who broke out of a maximum-security prison 
in Kenedy, Texas, on Dec. 13. Four were arrested Monday in nearby 
Woodland Park. A fifth killed himself as authorities closed in. Singer, 
who anchors KKTV's evening newscasts, learned at about 10:30 p.m. 
Tuesday that Murphy and Newbury might be holed up at a Holiday Inn 
two blocks from where their van had been found. He remained at the 
station, breaking into programming three times with updates. At 11:30 
p.m., negotiators told the station the fugitives wanted to make a 
statement either on KKTV _ a CBS affiliate _ or a national cable channel 
before giving up. Singer said the fugitives apparently had been watching 
his station. Negotiators asked Singer to do the interview; he said 
he did not know why they chose him. Negotiators decided that each 
fugitive would have five minutes to make a statement and answer questions 
from Singer. The anchor said negotiators did not suggest any questions, 
but an FBI agent sat off-camera and timed the interviews. ``I was 
just a small part of this. Let's make this clear. The negotiating 
team set the stage. ... My job was to do the best I could to not exacerbate 
the situation,'' Singer said. Aly Colon, a media researcher at the 
Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Fla., said broadcasting the interview 
at the request of either the negotiators or the fugitives raises questions 
about the news media's independence. ``If you allow outside groups 
to dictate the manner in which the news is disseminated, it undermines 
the position of the news media as an evaluator and independent broker 
of the information,'' he said. KKTV news director Brian Rackham said 
his station decided to air the interview because it might help end 
the standoff with no loss of life, and because it was an important 
story. ``I think their (the fugitives') perspective was interesting. 
We may not agree with it, but it certainly is part of the story,'' 
he told Fox News Channel. Texas prison system spokesman Larry Todd 
said the negotiators made the right decision to allow the interview. 
``Let them have their 15 minutes of fame, because the people watching 
television know what slime balls they are,'' Todd said. ___ On the 
Net: KKTV-TV: http://www.kktv.com