The day's easiest shot was the last one. A weary Martina Hingis stood 
two steps from the net, looking up at the roof of Rod Laver Arena 
and waiting patiently for Serena Williams' weak lob to descend. Hingis 
cocked her racket and slapped an overhead into the corner, putting 
the ball and the match out of Williams' reach. The dramatic 6-2, 3-6, 
8-6 victory Wednesday gave Hingis a place in the Australian Open semifinals 
and required 2 hours, 19 minutes of dogged persistence. ``I definitely 
lost some weight today,'' she said with a smile. Her dubious reward 
was a match Thursday against Serena's sister, Venus. But win or lose 
in the semis, Hingis can draw encouragement from her second win this 
month over the younger Williams. ``You can't count on just overpowering 
me anymore,'' said Hingis, who has won five Grand Slam titles but 
none since January 1999. ``I was able to stay in the game and just 
hit groundstrokes with her, which I had a little bit of trouble with 
in the past.'' The victory gave the top-seeded Hingis a chance to 
beat both Williams sisters in the same tournament, something she has 
never done. Venus, seeded third, advanced by outlasting No. 10 Amanda 
Coetzer 2-6, 6-1, 8-6. In a surprising twist, the men's final will 
include a Frenchman for the first time since 1928. No. 15-seeded Arnaud 
Clement and No. 16 Sebastien Grosjean, friends since childhood, won 
Wednesday and will stage an all-France semifinal Friday. ``We grew 
up together. We've played a lot together,'' Clement said. ``To be 
playing in the semifinals is unbelievable.'' Grosjean beat Carlos 
Moya 6-1, 6-4, 6-2. Clement then upset No. 5 Yevgeny Kafelnikov 6-4, 
5-7, 7-6 (3), 7-6 (3). Clement celebrated by throwing his bandanna, 
his shirt and both shoes to the crowd, then taking off his socks and 
tossing them aside. Defending champion Andre Agassi, seeded sixth, 
was to play No. 12 Pat Rafter of Australia in the other semifinal 
Thursday night. A rainstorm Wednesday forced the closing of the retractable 
roof over center court, and thunder accompanied the booming groundstrokes 
of Williams and Hingis. At times they whacked the ball wildly _ especially 
the sixth-seeded Williams, who made 54 unforced errors. She blamed 
the defeat on food poisoning, saying she barely ate for two days leading 
up to the match. ``I wasn't at my best or feeling my best, so I'm 
pretty disappointed,'' she said. Hingis wasn't too sympathetic. Williams 
has a habit of complaining about her health when she loses, and she 
made it through three sets of doubles after losing in singles. ``You 
have to watch what you eat,'' Hingis said. ``You have to become a 
little bit professional about that. ... I couldn't really tell she 
had food poisoning. I think it was more that I wore her out.'' Such 
is the nature of the relationship between the two brash youngsters, 
which helps explain why both fought so fiercely to the finish. Hingis 
rallied from a 4-1 deficit in the final set, closing to 4-all with 
a backhand lob over Williams that kissed the sideline on break point. 
Williams was two points from victory serving at 5-4, deuce, but Hingis 
again pulled even. There were several rallies of at least a dozen 
strokes, sometimes with two or three shots landing on a line during 
a single point as the crowd gasped before erupting with another roar. 
When Hingis scrambled to hit a forehand winner and save a break point 
serving at 5-5, even Williams' mother applauded. The best exchange 
came the first time Hingis reached match point. She charged the net, 
but Williams lofted a lob over her head. Hingis frantically retreated 
to the corner, wheeled and smacked a crosscourt forehand that looked 
like a winner. But Williams' lunging backhanded stab deflected the 
ball back across the net for the point. The second match point ended 
with Hingis' putaway. She and Williams shook hands at the net and 
shared a smile _ a friendly finish to the sometimes acrimonious rivalry. 
``It was a great match from both of us, at the end especially,'' Hingis 
said. ``The third set was very good tennis.'' Williams _ no surprise 
here _ was unfazed by the defeat. The loss reminded her of 1999, when 
she was eliminated in the third round at Melbourne and later won the 
U.S. Open. ``I told Venus, `The last time I lost a match like this 
at the Australian Open, I went on to dominate,''' Williams said. ``I 
guess we know what to expect from now on.''