Cornered in a hotel room, the last two Texas prison escapees surrendered 
without a fight early Wednesday, 42 days after they broke out of a 
maximum security unit with an arsenal of weapons. Patrick Murphy Jr., 
a 39-year-old rapist, and Donald Newbury, a 38-year-old robber walked 
bare chested out of the hotel room where they had been holed up after 
about five hours of negotiations with police and an interview with 
a TV station. A hotel employee tipped police to the possibility that 
the fugitives were at the hotel late Tuesday afternoon, Deputy Police 
Chief Luis Velez said. The two were shocked when a detective called 
their room about 10 p.m. Murphy answered and said: ``You got us. I 
don't know how you guys did it, but you got us,'' Velez recounted. 
Like their captured accomplices, they now face capital murder charges 
in Texas stemming from the slaying of a police officer during a Christmas 
Eve robbery near Dallas. Ten loaded handguns and two loaded shotguns 
were recovered in the hotel room, FBI agent Mark Mershon said. Also 
recovered was slain officer Aubrey Hawkins' handgun, authorities said. 
The men each had a five-minute telephone interview with Colorado Springs' 
KKTV before surrendering at 3:45 a.m. Newbury told anchorman Eric 
Singer the Dec. 13 breakout was a statement against Texas' judicial 
system. ``We had a statement to make that the system is as corrupt 
as we are. You going to do something about us, well, do something 
about that system, too,'' Newbury said. Murphy said he was up for 
parole when he broke out. ``What forced me to do this was the penal 
institution and such. The way Texas has things set up ... I'd eventually 
become an outlaw again anyway because of parole stipulations and such.'' 
``I hope that maybe what we're doing here will open the eyes of people.'' 
In Irving, a police spokesman rejected what he said was an attempt 
by the escapees to characterize themselves as victims of the criminal 
justice system. ``I don't see that they were the victims. To quote 
the chief, Officer Hawkins was the victim. We buried the victim,'' 
Officer David Tull. The inmates promised a peaceful end to the standoff 
early in the negotiations, and authorities were not surprised they 
kept that commitment. ``They had their say by telephone and then we 
had them back out of the room, shirtless, hands in the air, no weapons 
on them,'' Mershon said. Newbury and Murphy were handcuffed and put 
into separate patrol cars that slowly rolled out of the parking lot 
of the Holiday Inn. Their four surviving companions were held in a 
detention center in Teller County about 20 miles away. The arrests 
brought to an end a frustrating hunt _ one of the largest in the Southwest's 
history _ for the seven convicts who bluffed their way out of the 
prison in Kenedy, Texas, after stealing 16 firearms and ammunition 
from a prison storage area. Four were arrested peacefully Monday at 
a convenience store and at a motor home in Woodland Park, 20 miles 
from Colorado Springs. A fifth killed himself in the motor home as 
authorities closed in. Authorities said the men robbed a sporting 
goods store in Irving and killed Hawkins when he arrived. He was shot 
11 times and run over by a vehicle. That heightened fears the men 
would not surrender peacefully. ``Now we can get down to business 
and get some changes in this lousy Texas penal system,'' Jayne Hawkins, 
the officer's mother told The Associated Press on Wednesday. ``My 
son will not die in vain.'' The seven arrived in Colorado the last 
week in December, spending time in Pueblo, about 100 miles south of 
Denver, before renting a space for their motor home in the Coachlight 
Motel and RV Park in Woodland Park around Jan. 1. ``We had to drive 
out of the Texas snow storm that hit right at Christmas Eve in the 
Amarillo area and we had to drive through the blizzard for hours and 
literally, Colorado was just a random pick,'' Murphy said during his 
interview. They led the park manager and neighbors to believe they 
were Christian missionaries en route from Texas to California, while 
keeping as many as three dozen weapons, loaded and cocked, in the 
cramped RV. ``We joked about it often, but it really was just by downplaying 
ourselves and changing our hair color and such,'' Murphy said. ``We 
attempted to be as friendly and neighborly as we could.'' Authorities 
believe Murphy and Newbury split from the others last weekend because 
they wanted to obtain more money. Police on Tuesday found their van 
abandoned in a motel parking lot two blocks from the Holiday Inn and 
then searched door to door. They received a tip the two were at the 
Holiday Inn and surrounded the hotel, opening negotiations via telephone 
at about 10 p.m. Earlier tips received after a weekend airing of the 
escape on the television show ``America's Most Wanted'' finally broke 
the case. A $500,000 reward had been offered for information leading 
to the conviction of the officer's killer, but there was no immediate 
word on how or when that money might be distributed. At a convenience 
store, authorities arrested suspected ringleader George Rivas, 30, 
who was serving a life sentence for aggravated robbery and kidnapping; 
and Michael Rodriguez, 38, and Joseph Garcia, 29, both murderers. 
At the same time, authorities surrounded the fugitives' motor home. 
Randy Halprin, 23, who had been serving time for beating an infant, 
surrendered. Larry Harper, 37, convicted of aggravated sexual assault, 
shot himself to death inside the RV. Murphy had been serving 50 years 
for aggravated sexual assault with a deadly weapon. Newbury was sentenced 
to 99 years for robbing a woman at a hotel in 1997 with a sawed-off 
shotgun. ___ On the Net: Texas Department of Criminal Justice: http://www.tdcj.state.tx.us 
Irving Police Department: http://www.irvingpd.com