good evening. we're going to begin in colorado. ever since the texas 
seven has been on the run and they were described early on as preparing 
for something big and dangerous, the great concern, if they were ever 
found, was a bloodbath. it didn't happen with the first five. the 
one committed suicide and it didn't happen late last night when the 
other two were finally corner. they were taken without a fight. all 
it took was a television interview. abc's mike von fremd is in colorado 
again tonight. mike? yes, peter it was a remarkable surrender. and 
the remaining members of the texas seven are now behind bars. you 
have the right to remain silent. late today, patrick murphy and then 
donald newbury were brought before a judge to be formally informed 
of their rights. you're being held pending extradition to the state 
of texas. it all started last night, when the convicts were in this 
holiday inn just two blocks from where they abandoned their brown 
ford van yesterday. a hotel employee called police, who then phoned 
room 426 at p.m. one of the convicts, patrick murphy, calmly answered. 
"you got us. i don't know how you guys did it, but you got us." s.w.a.t. 
teams surrounded the hotel. at p.m., the hotel guests were cleared 
out. they have evacuated the portion of the hotel that anybody is 
at risk. for the next six hours, the convicts had an open line to 
police, who tried to coax them out without bloodshed. they have been 
talking to the negotiators now for several hours. and just before 
a.m., this exchange. hi, donald. are you on the line with me? yes, 
i am. hi, donald. and i assume that you're watching television? the 
two promise they will give themselves up if they can speak live on 
television to a local anchorman about the state of texas justice. 
they are given five minutes each. when time expired -- as honorable 
men, you must go outside immediately. no problem. -- to resolve the 
situation peacefully. they made good on their promise and surrendered 
at a.m. inside their hotel room, police find ten loaded handguns and 
two loaded shotguns. today, in irving, texas, at the precinct where 
murdered officer aubrey hawkins served, police were angered that the 
convicts portrayed themselves as victims. i don't see what they were 
victims. and to quote the chief, "the victim is aubrey hawkins. we've 
buried the victim." authorities say the six surviving members of the 
texas seven will be returned to texas, where they will all now face 
the death penalty. thanks very much, mike. mike von fremd in colorado. 
as mike knows, that during their brief interviews, the two convicts 
described what it was like when they escaped. you have to listen fairly 
carefully. the gate from the -- that was done as peacefully as possible. 
the officers were very loyal. they were the only ones that resisted. 
it could have ended in a bloodbath. we could have been out of there 
in two minutes. instead two and a half hours, we took the time to 
do this gently. how did the texas seven decide on colorado? we had 
to drive out of the snowstorm that hit right after christmas eve and 
we had to drive through the blizzard for hours. and literally colorado 
was just a random pick. you were out there several weeks. how did 
you, you know, hide, try to be a chameleon in the community? we attempted 
to be friendly and as neighborly as we could. these guys will fool 
you. they were your neighbors, your next door neighbors. what exactly 
was your day to day like? we tried to remain as calm as possible at 
all times. this, in fact, was the van. they've been looking for it. 
they're checking in the area hotels in an attempt to locate two fugitives. 
donald please come home or give yourself up. we don't need any more 
hurt. the reason i'm stepping out of h@ abc world news/peter jennings 
abc % h@ ng a abc world news/pet fear. it is for the last 30 days. 
i'll stepping out of these doors with the sole purpose of honoring 
the person i love and to keep my voice in the media. well, he got 
that today.