Former CIA Director John M. Deutch agreed last Friday to plead guilty 
to a misdemeanor for mishandling government secrets, but President 
Clinton pardoned him before the Justice Department could file the 
case against him, officials said Wednesday. Deutch was among 176 people 
granted some form of clemency by Clinton just hours before he left 
office on Saturday. Clinton's pardon for Deutch said it was ``those 
offenses described in the Jan. 19, 2001 information.'' But Justice 
officials said the department did not file a criminal information 
in court against Deutch on that day _ last Friday. An information 
is used to file charges almost exclusively in cases where defendants 
have reached a plea bargain with prosecutors and thus have waived 
their right to have a grand jury consider the charges and agreed to 
have them filed directly with the court in a criminal information. 
Federal officials said last Friday that Deutch was near a plea bargain 
with prosecutors in which he would plead guilty to a misdemeanor but 
not be sentenced to any time in prison for keeping secrets on his 
unsecured home computers, which were linked to the Internet. A federal 
law enforcement official, requesting anonymity, said Wednesday that 
Deutch signed the agreement Friday but too late to file it in court 
that day. The next time it could have been filed was Monday but in 
the meantime, Clinton issued the pardon Saturday. Justice officials 
have declined to release the information or any plea bargain documents 
and say there is no reason to file them in court now the Deutch has 
been pardoned for the offense. The timing illustrates the hasty nature 
of some of Clinton's last-minute pardons, but has little or no practical 
effect on Deutch because even if the charges had been filed and his 
plea taken earlier, he would still have avoided incarceration and 
gotten a presidential pardon. A pardon releases a person from the 
punishment of a crime. States have different criteria for restoring 
the individual rights of those granted presidential pardons. Presidents 
have the power to pardon citizens for offenses before those citizens 
are charged with any offenses, as President Ford did in pardoning 
his predecessor, President Nixon, for any crimes he may have committed 
in the Watergate scandal. Deutch's attorney, Terrence O'Donnell did 
not return calls seeking his comment. Deutch, CIA director from May 
1995 to December 1996, stored and processed hundreds of files of highly 
classified material on unprotected home computers that he and family 
members also used to connect to the Internet, according to an internal 
CIA investigation. The Defense Department's inspector general found 
similar conduct during Deutch's prior service at the Pentagon. Now 
a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Deutch was 
stripped of his security clearances by CIA director George Tenet in 
1999. As a former deputy defense secretary, Deutch also had Pentagon 
clearances, but he voluntarily gave them up last year.