The stifling humidity had left Lindsay Davenport with molasses in 
her blood and lead in her shoes, while an energized Jennifer Capriati 
kept bouncing on the court like a boxer on canvas. She was poised 
for anything, for Davenport's atomic serve or heavy ground strokes, 
even for a trick or two. In the fifth game of the second set, a desperate 
Davenport, trying a sleight of hand, brushed a drop shot just over 
the net only to see a muscular Capriati rocket forward. She not only 
raced to retrieve the shot, Capriati also scooped a running forehand 
down the line for a winner. Davenport did not even move, as if anchored 
in her disbelief. Was this really happening? But under 95-degree heat, 
in the hot box of Rod Laver Arena, a player who has shown the elasticity 
to come back from her dark past had the resilience to keep coming 
Thursday afternoon. It was quite an arrival. Eleven years after Capriati 
turned professional at age 13, she fought her way past the looming 
defending champion of the Australian Open, 6-3, 6-4, to reach the 
first Grand Slam event final of her career. She'll face another player 
who stunned everyone Thursday. With unexpected speed, the top-seeded 
Martina Hingis became the first player to defeat both of the Williams 
sisters in a major, effortlessly dismantling an error-prone Venus 
Williams, 6-1, 6-1, in the second semifinal. Fifty-three minutes after 
the first serve, Williams smacked her 38th error of the day into the 
net on match point. A day after both survived draining three-set victories, 
Hingis was the one with the recovery powers. She was quicker, more 
precise and fresher. But as a five-time winner at a Grand Slam, Hingis 
has been here before, though. Capriati's wait has been much longer. 
``I really wanted it, and it has taken me a long time,'' Capriati 
said. ``It's something I really wanted. I was really determined before 
the match. I just gave it everything I had. ``I got my chance last 
year, and it was great. But I didn't want to give up a second chance.'' 
A year ago, Capriati was in this same position. She had completed 
the circle from her 1991 U.S. Open semifinal, through her dysfunctional 
teen tailspin, back to the spotlight of a major. Even though she lost 
in the semifinals to Davenport last year, she was in good position 
to fully resurrect her standing among the elite players. Capriati 
was fit, happy and following the direction of her coach, Harold Solomon. 
But Capriati started funneling her energies to her boyfriend, the 
tennis player Xavier Malisse, split with Solomon and lost her fitness 
level with her father back in charge of her career. But in the off-season, 
she rediscovered her discipline. And Thursday, with her father, Stefano, 
looking on as her coach, Capriati stood as an example of perseverance. 
She was back _ one more time. ``I know there were maybe some expectations 
coming into this tournament with me trying to make the semis again,'' 
Capriati said after she defeated Monica Seles to make the semifinals. 
``Expectations like am I in good of shape, and my dad's my coach, 
and all those things. I think it's just more gratifying to kind of 
live up to those expectations and go beyond. ``It's great. But I didn't 
get to this point just to be happy that I got to this far.'' She wanted 
more. And in the second set, she grabbed it. Just after her amazing 
get of Davenport's drop shot, she corralled a wild shot by Davenport 
that glanced off the net post and bounded into the center of the court. 
Unfazed by the bizarre ricochet, Capriati put away the short ball 
with her steady forehand to break Davenport and take a 3-2 lead. Capriati 
maintained her advantage through the end of the match. On her first 
match point, Capriati was a little too eager to finish it off. She 
served up a double fault with a big second serve. On her second match 
point, she watched Davenport end a rally with a forehand into the 
net. Euphoric, Capriati grabbed her head with both hands and smiled 
at her father. ``It was tough because in the first two games, she 
came out playing well,'' Davenport said. ``It put pressure on myself 
to do more and not to let her get a good hit at the ball. She played 
great, and she was fired up. I wasn't playing that well. And if you 
combine the two, it wasn't all that close. ``In all the semifinals 
I've ever played, this was the most disappointed I've ever been. I 
didn't come out. I came all this way and didn't play that well.'' 
Davenport was supposed to do more. But her path through the tournament 
hadn't been particularly impressive. She had struggled to get by lesser 
opponents, often having to rely on her big serve to bail her out of 
sticky situations. Davenport didn't have that weapon Thursday. She 
hit only 58 percent on her first serve, failed to blast a single ace 
and committed 43 unforced errors. Capriati served up four aces and 
had only 19 unforced errors. ``Jennifer is a great girl,'' Davenport 
said. ``It's great for her to have come through all that she has, 
but I'd still rather be in the final.'' Davenport wasn't focused on 
the prize at the start of the match. Quickly, Capriati used a strong 
first serve and blasted a flurry of forehands by a flat-footed Davenport 
to go up a break, 2-0. A little out of sync, a sluggish Davenport 
regrouped to find her ground stokes in the third game and forced four 
break points. But Capriati was undaunted. She kept the pressure on 
with deep shots until Davenport punched a backhand into the net. Capriati 
held serve to go up by 3-0. Davenport had her chances to pounce on 
a slight hiccup in Capriati's game, but botched double break point 
in the seventh game of the first set. Davenport smacked her racket 
on the ground after she cracked a running forehand into the net, then 
did it again as she whipped a forehand return into the net. On the 
changeover, down by 5-2, Davenport kicked her racket as if to punish 
it for her own mistakes. Under the pressure of a very agile Capriati, 
who was able to field the angled, heavy ground strokes that beat most 
players, Davenport ended the first set exasperated after her 18 unforced 
errors. ``Maybe Lindsay even underestimated me in the beginning,'' 
Capriati said. ``She didn't think I'd come out so strong.'' The last 
time Capriati surprised everyone like this, she won a gold medal for 
the 1992 American Olympic team. She has always said that was the highlight 
of her career. ``I didn't know if anything could top winning the gold, 
but this is great,'' Capriati said. ``We'll see when the final day 
comes.''