The New York Times said in an editorial for Thursday, Jan. 25: Anger 
over Bill Clinton's abuse of the pardoning process mounted Wednesday, 
as well it should. This page has criticized Clinton for his last-minute 
pardon of the fugitive commodities trader Marc Rich. But a broader 
look at Clinton's final pardon list makes clear that the outrage extends 
well beyond the undeserved leniency for Rich. We are particularly 
troubled by the numerous instances in which Clinton granted pardons 
or commutations without proper consultation with federal prosecutors, 
often to reward friends or political allies or gain future political 
advantage. Consider, for example, Clinton's decision to commute the 
sentences of four Hasidic men from New Square, N.Y., who were in prison 
for defrauding the government by inventing a fictitious religious 
school and using it to attract millions in government aid. The commutations 
were granted after the president Clinton and his wife, Sen. Hillary 
Rodham Clinton, met privately in December with supporters of the men, 
whose politically active sect had overwhelmingly backed Mrs. Clinton 
in her victorious Senate campaign. Mrs. Clinton denies any responsibility 
for the president's commutation decision and denies even knowing that 
commutation would be discussed. But her presence at the meeting surely 
underscores her interest in accommodating these constituents. The 
U.S. attorney in New York, Mary Jo White, vigorously opposed the commutations, 
which she learned about only at the last minute. Politics rather than 
a careful weighing of the merits also appears to have been the deciding 
factor in Clinton's pardon of Edward Downe Jr., a contributor to Mrs. 
Clinton and other Democrats, who pleaded guilty in the early 1990s 
to insider trading and was sentenced to probation and stiff fines. 
Prosecutors in White's office learned of the pardon decision last 
Friday _ too late to effectively register their objections. Similarly, 
William Fugazy, a confidant of several politicians, including Mayor 
Rudolph Giuliani of New York, and a prominent figure in civic affairs, 
was granted a pardon for his perjury in a bankruptcy proceeding over 
White's objections. Fugazy's lawyer said he had successfully sought 
help from an unnamed political figure to carry his request to the 
White House. In the same vein, Rep. Jerrold Nadler, a Manhattan Democrat, 
served as a courier who forwarded pardon information to the White 
House for Susan Rosenberg, a former member of the Weather Underground 
serving a lengthy sentence for her role in an explosives and weapons 
case. Nadler says he took no position on the pardon, which was opposed 
by White's office. Of course, some people close to the president had 
no need for special access to gain his attention. Clinton's pardons 
of his brother, Roger Clinton, who served time years ago on cocaine 
charges, and of Susan McDougal, who went to jail for refusing to answer 
questions about Clinton's Whitewater dealings, were clear distortions 
of the pardoning process to help friends and family. The president's 
power to grant pardons is absolute, and it is meant to correct injustices 
or perform a civic good. But the properly intense furor over Clinton's 
pardon of Rich led Sen. Tom Daschle, the Senate Democratic leader, 
to suggest that Congress might need to review the president's unilateral 
power to dispense pardons. That seems an unnecessary assault on a 
fundamental constitutional power. But such congressional concern should 
be a signal to future chief executives that in this matter, as in 
other aspects of presidential judgment, Clinton is not a role model 
to follow. President Bush can help restore trust in this important 
presidential responsibility by committing himself to abide by the 
traditional process of Justice Department review before a pardon is 
granted.