All night long, Patrick Rafter looked as if he'd just walked in from 
a downpour with the way his shirt stuck to his skin and his sneakers 
squished when he darted to the net. Eventually, the sultry air inside 
Rod Laver Arena simply squeezed his body, leaving him short on fluids 
and low on hope against Andre Agassi Thursday night. Using his aggressive 
serve-and-volley game in brilliant contrast to the tactical ground 
strokes and reflex returns of Agassi, Rafter had been up two sets 
to one during their semifinal match when he began to feel the muscles 
in his legs begin to seize during the fourth set. He kept pushing, 
though, right through the painful end, if only for the Aussies who 
packed the stands to see their beloved star for perhaps the last time. 
``I wasn't going to walk off when I was possibly playing my last match 
at an Australian Open,'' said Rafter, who may retire after this season. 
``I was going to play it out whether I lost 6-love or whatever. I 
was going to play it out.'' The cramps just would not let go. By the 
fifth set, he was limping to the net, staggering to reach Agassi's 
ground strokes and watched helplessly as passing shots whistled by 
him. Although he admires Rafter, Agassi was unrelenting against his 
friend. Agassi had earned this advantage with his supreme conditioning 
efforts, and he was not about to let it go, taking the hyped semifinal 
7-5, 2-6, 6-7 (5), 6-2, 6-3. The sixth-seeded defending champion will 
play the winner of Friday's all-French semifinal between Arnaud Clement 
and Sebastien Grosjean. But for 2 hours of Thursday night's three-hour 
match, Rafter appeared to be the one en route to a storybook final. 
``It was hot and humid out there, but I didn't handle it quite as 
well,'' said Rafter who had never advanced past the fourth round of 
his home-based major before this week. ``It's more frustrating knowing 
I had a chance. I was playing very well. I was happy with the way 
I was playing. To fall short because of some physical imbalance, that's 
just the frustrating part of it. ``Sometimes, I can control the sweating 
and my intensity during the match. I can do things to sort of help 
me relax a little better. But tonight was not one of those nights.'' 
It was too big a match to relax. Inside the arena, there was a rock-concert 
atmosphere surrounding two players who are as universally loved as 
ice cream. But even though the Aussies cheered politely for the American 
star, they erupted with the excitement of a lottery winner the moment 
Agassi rifled a backhand return wide to give Rafter the third-set 
tiebreaker. ``Two sets to one down, that was a problem,'' Agassi said, 
``especially against a guy who knows how to win.'' Rafter could almost 
touch a victory until the cramps crept into both of his thighs early 
in the fourth set. Until that point, he and Agassi had left the fans 
mesmerized. In the third game of the third set, Agassi, snapping back 
return winners on every second serve Rafter would give him, forced 
two break points. But as if to top Agassi's cool with his own, Rafter 
erased each break point by uncorking two aces. It was hard to find 
flaw in either player. Through three sets, the baseline-bound Agassi 
had committed just 11 errors, while Rafter was winning nearly 70 percent 
of the points with his throwback net game. ``At the end of the day, 
you just want to make him earn it if he wins,'' Agassi said. ``That's 
all I was trying to do, just play a great match. It turned out to 
be a great match that happened to go my way.'' With his ability to 
methodically dismantle the power of physically ominous opponents, 
Agassi may have won even if Rafter had remained healthy. But when 
Rafter was visited by a trainer after the third game of the fourth 
set, Agassi's tactics became much clearer. As cold as it might sound, 
he had to launch a calculated attack. ``It's a fine line when your 
opponent starts struggling,'' Agassi said. ``You want to make him 
play, but you can't afford to give a guy a window to take the offense 
in the point. ``I think the biggest factor was what he lost in his 
serve. I could really make him play a lot of volleys. It's hard to 
dig out volleys if your legs are going on you. Once that was going 
on him, he was in a tough predicament.'' It was a difficult scene 
for the crowd to take. They kept chanting Rafter's name during changeovers 
and calling out support in between points, but they possessed no healing 
powers. Instead, they had to watch his painful finish. At the end 
of a baseline rally, a nearly immobile Rafter sliced a backhand long 
on match point. Agassi hardly celebrated. He met Rafter at the net, 
leaned toward him and said, ``Great fight.'' Rafter then gathered 
his things, waved in appreciation of a raucous ovation and departed 
through the tunnel beneath the stands. About a half hour later, Rafter 
discussed just how devastating his exit was for him to take. ``It's 
tough when you want to chase it down, but your legs seize up,'' Rafter 
said. ``My heart feels fine. It feels like it wants to run. I want 
to run, but my legs won't do it. It's disappointing for the public 
and for myself. But they were great. They understood the situation 
there.''