The ex-wife of pardoned financier Marc Rich said her political donations 
of more than $1 million to Democrats since 1993 were unrelated to 
President Clinton's grant of clemency during his last few hours in 
office. Denise Rich said it was ``entirely appropriate'' for her to 
be among those who petitioned Clinton to pardon the indicted financier 
who has been living in Switzerland, where he fled in the 1980s. ``The 
pardon given to Marc Rich will give him the opportunity to visit his 
daughter's grave for the first time,'' Denise Rich said in a statement 
issued Wednesday through a spokesman, New York publicist Howard J. 
Rubenstein. The Riches' daughter, Gabrielle, died from cancer in 1996. 
``Her political fund-raising and charitable activities have absolutely 
nothing to do with the pardon granted to her former husband,'' the 
statement added. One of Rich's lawyers, former Clinton White House 
counsel Jack Quinn, told The New York Times in Thursday's editions, 
that the president's decision was based on an 11th hour conversation 
the two men had had that focused strictly on the case. ``Every word 
I had with the president was about the legal merits,'' Quinn said. 
``He was not focused on 'Are they Democrats?' or 'Is Denise this?' 
He was focused on the distinction I was making about whether this 
ought to have been treated as a civil or criminal matter.'' In the 
few public comments he has made regarding the issue, Clinton indicated 
that his decision was based on Quinn's presentation of the case. Rich 
was indicted in Manhattan federal court in 1983, shortly after he 
fled the country, on charges of tax fraud and illegally buying oil 
from Iran during the 1979 hostage crisis. In seeking the pardon, Rich's 
lawyers argued that the case against him could not be brought now 
because of changes in the law and that similar cases have been handled 
as regulatory matters. The pardon has drawn strong criticism. Giuliani, 
a former Justice Department official and federal prosecutor who withdrew 
from his Senate race against the first lady, urged Congress this week 
to look into Clinton's pardon of Rich. U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White 
said her office had been ``bypassed'' by the Clinton White House as 
the president's aides considered the arguments of Rich, his indicted 
business partner and several other defendants charged in White's jurisdiction, 
the southern district of Manhattan. ``We were totally unaware that 
pardons for Marc Rich'' and his business partner ``were even under 
consideration,'' said White. Quinn told the Times that he had approached 
White's office urging them to re-examine the case, but had gotten 
nothing more than ``the back of the hand from'' her. Rich was a fugitive 
and ``I have a hard time seeing how he qualifies for a pardon,'' said 
Dick Thornburgh, who served as attorney general during the Reagan 
and Bush administrations. Thornburgh also objected because Clinton 
administration officials ``bypassed the normal process and kept the 
application secret from the law enforcement officials who brought 
the charges.''