The chubby man in the red track suit didn't know it, but he was about 
to make history. Something _ frustration, rage or just the heat of 
the moment _ drove him through a surprised knot of riot police and 
onto the steps of the federal parliament. For a moment, he was there 
alone, standing on the cusp of an uprising. ``Don't do it, there'll 
be a bloodbath!'' cried an opposition leader over a loudspeaker. The 
people in the crowd on Thursday _ more than 200,000 angry opponents 
of Slobodan Milosevic _ weren't listening. They were watching the 
lone man in the track suit. He was waving them on. A few people stepped 
forward. Then more. Then a stampede that overwhelmed the line of police. 
With their votes, they had expressed their demand for change. Now, 
on a brisk afternoon, they were literally trampling Milosevic's 13 
years of rule _ a period of war, corruption and despair that saw Yugoslavia 
ripped apart and reduced to a pariah, beggar nation. Soon the wide, 
granite steps of the parliament were clogged with protesters. They 
were at the front doors of the stately building, surrounding the bronze 
horse statues that watch over the main entrance. From inside, police 
launched another barrage of tear gas and stun grenades. But this time, 
there was no stopping the mob. They choked. Their eyes stung. But 
still they came. Even the weather helped them: A strong wind helped 
carry away the tear gas. Within minutes, the parliament _ a symbol 
of Milosevic's autocratic rule _ was set on fire and looted. The autocratic 
leader's dreaded policemen were in disarray. They fled or tossed away 
shields and batons to surrender to the demonstrators. ``He's finished!'' 
read a wrinkled opposition banner left dangling on the assembly's 
doors. ___ Milosevic had called Yugoslav presidential and parliamentary 
elections for Sept. 24, feeling it was his best bet to refresh his 
power before another harsh winter with no heating and a lack of staple 
goods. He also was counting on riding anti-Western sentiments stirred 
up by last year's 78-day NATO bombing. Milosevic and his neo-communist 
cronies were brimming with confidence. ``We'll beat them 100-0,'' 
predicted Ivan Markovic, one of Milosevic's closest allies. But by 
early September, Milosevic was trailing badly in the polls behind 
a stiff, unpolished law professor named Vojislav Kostunica. Milosevic 
dismissed the results as ``enemy'' propaganda financed by the West. 
But when his Socialist did their own poll, revealing an even worse 
shortfall for Milosevic, he threw a pollster out of his presidential 
office in the heavily protected Dedinje district. ``You are lying,'' 
he shouted, according to sources close to the former president. He 
ordered criminal charges to be filed against the opposition polling 
companies, saying they were misinforming the public. Milosevic was 
privately in panic by late September. He turned for help to his Marxist 
wife, Mirjana Markovic, using her for what she does best: launch merciless 
verbal attacks against perceived foes of Yugoslavia. Milosevic, too, 
hit the road. At one rally in Montenegro, Serbia's smaller partner 
in the two-republic Yugoslav federation, Milosevic lashed out at his 
opponents, calling them ``rats and hyenas.'' Serbian TV and the Politika 
daily newspaper _ his chief pillars of propaganda _ inflated the number 
of those who took part in poorly attended rallies. The Vecernje Novosti 
daily carried a front-page photo from the Montenegro rally, merging 
several pictures to make the crowd look huge. The trick was so obvious 
it was mocked in public. Milosevic's wife called the elections ``a 
matter of life and death.'' But according to party sources who spoke 
on condition of anonymity, she also tried to dispel fears among party 
officials, saying: ``The winner will be the one who counts the vote 
and not the one who wins.'' ___ On election night, Milosevic spokesman 
Nikola Sainovic was the messenger bearing bad news. He rushed to the 
president's White Palace in Dedinje to tell him that Kostunica appeared 
to be surging toward an outright victory. Milosevic reacted with fury, 
grabbing Sainovic by his mustache and telling him to go and reverse 
the results, Socialist party sources said. The Milosevic-controlled 
election commission is accused of shaving off just enough votes from 
Kostunica to justify calling a run-off. Kostunica refused the second 
round, saying new balloting would give the beleaguered Milosevic enough 
time to regroup, cheat even more and try to steal victory. With Milosevic 
unlikely to concede the clear defeat and step down, opposition leaders 
forged a plan that included widespread civil disobedience and possible 
use of force. Massive strikes and road blockades, unseen in Yugoslavia's 
55-year history, spread throughout the country. On Oct. 2, in a last-ditch 
attempt to stem the tide, Milosevic used a televised address to plead 
with Serbs to rally behind him, saying the country would break apart 
and become a Western colony if he were not in charge. He later summoned 
his secret service chief, Rade Markovic, and another close ally, army 
chief of staff Gen. Nebojsa Pavkovic, for a crisis meeting. Milosevic 
urged them to prepare a crackdown against his opponents, a source 
at the meeting said. But they told him there was a simmering mutiny 
within the police and army and that officers were likely to switch 
sides in case of an intervention, sources said. ``Milosevic looked 
like he was going to die,'' one source said. ``And Mira (Markovic) 
went into hysterics. Doctors had to give her a tranquilizer injection.'' 
___ In Cacak, an opposition stronghold in the industrial belt south 
of Belgrade, Mayor Velimir Ilic gathered a group of radicals including 
known local gangsters, karate experts and a few former policemen. 
They forged a plan to be put into effect in case Milosevic refused 
to step down by their deadline: 3 p.m. on Oct. 5. That morning, with 
Milosevic still clinging to power, they packed up a front-end loader 
and drove to Belgrade. During the 60-mile drive to the capital, the 
Cacak crowd swelled to more than 10,000. Nothing stood in their way. 
They people pushed aside four police roadblocks _ including one with 
trucks loaded with sand _ and marched to the front of the parliament 
building. ``Everything was planned,'' Ilic said. ``We said we won't 
return to Cacak until Milosevic was gone. And why hide it? Many of 
our men were armed and they knew exactly what they were doing.'' Ilic 
said the takeover plan included the onslaughts that eventually materialized 
at the parliament, the state broadcasting headquarters and the Politika 
newspaper. At the TV headquarters, a front-end loader plowed down 
the doors and the crowd streamed in. Several well-known reporters 
were severely beaten by the vengeful crowd as payback for years of 
feeding the public the warped Milosevic version of reality. At parliament, 
members of the crowd who surged past the police cordon took over the 
building. Fires broke out inside as protesters trashed offices, hurling 
pictures of Milosevic supporters out the windows. ___ Having been 
virtually deserted by top allies and fearing reprisals, Milosevic 
and his wife fled their usual residence and went into hiding in another 
house in Dedinje. On Friday, a day after the downtown rampage, Milosevic 
finally conceded the electoral defeat. The once-formidable Yugoslav 
president looked like a shadow of his former self. ``I intend to rest 
a bit and spend some more time with my family and especially with 
my grandson, Marko, and after that to help my party gain force and 
contribute to future prosperity,'' he said in a televised address. 
Many weren't ready to let it go at that. ``Milosevic and his wife 
should hang,'' exclaimed student Miroslav Jankovic during the carnival-like 
celebration, which stretched well into Friday before jubilation turned 
to happy exhaustion. ``Only then we'll be certain they won't torment 
us again.'' ___ EDITORS NOTE: Dusan Stojanovic has covered all four 
Balkan wars triggered by Milosevic and uprisings in neighboring Romania 
and Bulgaria.