on capitol hill today, house republicans were requesting documents 
about former president clinton's controversial pardon of the billionaire 
mark rich. mr. clton's pardon is the object of serious dispute. this 
also involves gifts to the clintons. here is abc's jackie judd. gone, 
but not nearly forgotten. five days out of office, and the former 
president, as well as his wife, still have the capacity to irritate. 
the clintons have no capacity for either shame or embarrassment. i 
tell you what, this is an outrage. i've never seen something like 
this. does clinton have any friends who aren't crooked? mr. clinton's 
pardon of fugitive financier mark rich, whose ex-wife denise gave 
over $1 million to the democratic party, has left former prosecutor 
rudolph giuliani fuming. i'm very disappointed and shocked that the 
president of the united states would pardon him. i don't understand 
it. even some members of the clintons' own party object. pardoning 
a fugitive from justice is wrong. rich fled the u.s. 17 years ago 
rather than face charges of tax evasion, mail fraud, racketeering 
and dealing with iran during the trade embargo. mr. clinton acted 
after receiving personal appeals from denise rich and former white 
house lawyer jack quinn, who argued the charges were too severe. quinn 
made a strong case and i was convinced he was right on the merits. 
the former president apparently never consulted federal prosecutors. 
margaret love reviewed pardon requests at the justice department. 
it's more thaan appearance that access made the difference. i think 
there is not a question that access did, in fact, make a difference 
in this case. the clintons also are facing criticism for accepting 
a last-minute rush of gifts worth $190,000, including tables and chairs 
from denise rich. sources say a california friend, rita pynos, encouraged 
some donors to move fast before senator clinton would have been unable 
to accept the gifts. so mrs. clinton begins her term, mr. clinton 
ends his in a familiar place, the center of controversy. jackie judd, 
abc news, washington.