When a big donor called in November seeking a letter acknowledging 
his largesse, Jonathan Halevy, the head of Shaare Zedek Medical Center 
in Jerusalem, did what he always does. He obliged. But Halevy was 
never told, he said on Thursday, that his brief testimonial would 
be one of 52 such letters used to help persuade President Clinton 
to pardon Marc Rich as one of his last acts in office. And now, he 
said, he feels misled. ``I'm obliged, if I got a donation from someone, 
to confirm that I got it in writing,'' Halevy said Thursday night 
from his home. ``But I think it would be very fair to tell me this 
was the purpose.'' Halevy said Avner Azulay, the head of the Rich 
Foundation in Tel Aviv, called about two months ago and asked him 
to acknowledge the foundation's gifts. The stated reason, Halevy said, 
was that the foundation was preparing a ``book in honor of Rich and 
the foundation.'' As the head of one of Israel's most important charities, 
Halevy said, he gets such requests often, thought nothing of it, and 
dispatched a letter, dated Nov. 30. Several other people whose letters 
were in the petition put before the president on Dec. 11 said they, 
too, knew nothing about the quiet but furious efforts made to obtain 
a pardon for Rich, a financier who has lived abroad for 17 years rather 
than face trial in the United States for tax fraud and other crimes. 
Criticism to the pardon has poured in from many corners, partly because 
Rich's former wife, Denise, is a close friend of Clinton and partly 
because the application was sent directly to the White House by Jack 
Quinn, a former White House counsel who works for Rich, bypassing 
the normal channels through the Justice Department. Denise Rich and 
Quinn made personal appeals to Clinton to grant the pardon before 
prosecutors were aware that a pardon of a noted fugitive was being 
considered. Quinn, who has been widely criticized for using his government 
connections to win a long-shot pardon, refused to say on Thursday 
how much he would be paid, insisting that it was within his normal 
rates. ``The fee figures of $5 million to $10 million are absolutely 
and unequivocally false,'' he said through a spokesman, referring 
to figures being repeated by other lawyers. On Thursday, The Associated 
Press reported, Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., the chairman of the House 
Government Reform Committee, requested documents about the pardon 
from a wide range of sources in what could be the first of many such 
salvos. Azulay, the foundation executive who collected many of the 
letters that were sent from prominent Israeli citizens about Rich's 
charitable activities, would not comment on Thursday. Reached at his 
home, he said: ``I can't hear you. Please call back.'' He then hung 
up. His phone registered repeated busy signals for the rest of the 
evening. All 52 letters were described by the petition as ``Letters 
Expressing Support for the Pardon of Marc Rich.'' Yet Robert F. Fink, 
one of Rich's lawyers, acknowledged, ``Not everyone was necessarily 
told it was going to be for a pardon.'' Indeed, only one of six letter 
writers reached on Thursday night said he knew the letter might by 
used in connection with Rich's legal problems. Teddy Kollek, a former 
mayor of Jerusalem who now works for the Jerusalem Foundation, wrote 
a letter as well. Kollek, too, said he knew nothing about a pardon. 
Not that he was miffed. ``I have no complaint against it,'' he said. 
``He does a lot of charity in this country.'' ``I go by what he does 
here, and what he does here is totally positive.'' Noting that he 
was nearing 90, Kollek was a bit frustrated that he could not remember 
exactly who had asked him to provide the testimonial. ``I can't remember,'' 
he said. ``But I don't think I ever wrote to President Clinton about 
a reprieve or about his sentence. This is not my business.'' His lone 
complaint was that Rich was ``supposed to be a very rich man'' and 
that his gifts to the Jerusalem Foundation were ``comparatively small.'' 
``He could probably do much more,'' Kollek said. Gila Almagor, an 
Israeli actress who is on the Tel Aviv City Council, said she not 
only knew nothing about a possible pardon, she also knew little about 
Rich's legal woes. ``I never met Rich, never.'' Nonetheless, Almagor 
wrote an appreciative letter in 1999 thanking Rich for being such 
an enthusiastic supporter of the local arts. The Rich Foundation had 
her letter on file and forwarded it as well. ``I didn't know about 
any petition, but I'm glad President Clinton pardoned him,'' she said. 
If her letter ``helped Rich, why not?'' she asked. ``In one part of 
the world someone is a saint, and in other part of the world he is 
what he is.''