A strong earthquake rocked Pakistan and India on Friday, knocking 
over buildings and houses, and killing at least 20 people, officials 
said. Rescuers pulled 18 bodies from the rubble of two collapsed buildings 
in the Indian city of Surat, 580 miles west of New Delhi, Assistant 
Commissioner of Police M.B. Tethani said by telephone from Surat. 
He said the death toll from the 6.9-magnitude quake could climb as 
the rubble is cleared. In Hyderabad in Pakistan's Sindh region, emergency 
crews sifting through the wreckage of a fallen two-story house found 
the bodies of a child and an adult, and were searching for more victims. 
The identities of the victims were not given. The Indian Meteorological 
Institute put the quake's magnitude at 6.9 and said it was centered 
in the Rann of Kutch desert plateau on the border between India and 
Pakistan, about 190 miles southeast of the Pakistani capital of Karachi. 
Meteorologists in Pakistan had earlier said the quake had a preliminary 
magnitude of 5.5, and was centered 1,200 miles south of the city of 
Peshawar, Pakistan, under the Arabian Sea. The quake, which struck 
at 8:50 a.m., was felt in Bombay, India's financial and entertainment 
capital, where residents fled tall buildings as pictures and cupboards 
shook. It was the same in Madras, on the eastern coast of India and 
in Pondicherry, further to the south, where officials with loudspeakers 
urged panicked residents to be calm. Millions of Hindu pilgrims sleeping 
in tents at India's Kumbh Mela festival in eastern Uttar Pradesh, 
930 miles east of Karachi, felt the ground sway beneath them, but 
there were no reports of panic. Residents of India's arid western 
states of Rajasthan and Gujarat rushed out of their homes, but then 
returned when the shaking stopped. The quake hit New Delhi, a city 
of 12 million people, just before India's massive Republic Day parade. 
No panic was reported at the parade site, which was to be attended 
by India's top government and military leaders.